

-- 1 of 193 --



-- 2 of 193 --

Content Strategy for the Web
Second Edition
Kristina Halvorson
Melissa Rach
Foreword by Sarah Cancilla, Facebook

-- 3 of 193 --

Content Strategy for the Web, Second Edition
Kristina Halvorson and Melissa Rach
New Riders
1249 Eighth Street
Berkeley, CA 94710
510/524-2178
510/524-2221 (fax)
Find us on the Web at: www.newriders.com
To report errors, please send a note to errata@peachpit.com
New Riders is an imprint of Peachpit, a division of Pearson Education.
Copyright © 2012 by Kristina Halvorson
Project Editor: Michael J. Nolan
Development Editors: Tenessa Gemelke and Margaret Anderson
Production Editor: Cory Borman
Copyeditor: Gretchen Dykstra
Proofreader: Rose Weisburd
Interior Design and Composition: Kim Scott, Bumpy Design
Cover Designer: Sean Tubridy
Indexer: Joy Dean Lee
Notice of Rights
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced or
transmitted in any form by any means, electronic, mechanical,
photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without the prior written
permission of the publisher. For information on getting permission for
reprints and excerpts, contact permissions@peachpit.com.
Notice of Liability
The information in this book is distributed on an “As Is” basis without
warranty. While every precaution has been taken in the preparation of the
book, neither the authors nor Peachpit shall have any liability to any
person or entity with respect to any loss or damage caused or alleged to
be caused directly or indirectly by the instructions contained in this book
or by the computer software and hardware products described in it.
Trademarks
Many of the designations used by manufacturers and sellers to
distinguish their products are claimed as trademarks. Where those

-- 4 of 193 --

designations appear in this book, and Peachpit was aware of a trademark
claim, the designations appear as requested by the owner of the
trademark. All other product names and services identified throughout
this book are used in editorial fashion only and for the benefit of such
companies with no intention of infringement of the trademark. No such
use, or the use of any trade name, is intended to convey endorsement or
other affiliation with this book.
ISBN 13: 978-0-321-80830-1
ISBN 10: 0-321-80830-4
9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
Printed and bound in the United States of America

-- 5 of 193 --

Advance Praise for Content Strategy for the Web,
Second Edition
“The first edition of Kristina Halvorson’s little book was like a rip in the
Matrix through which light poured. In the space of a few chapters, she
had changed our field forever, for the better. This second edition retains
all that was wonderful in the first book, while yielding dazzling new
insights into the hows and whys of content strategy.”
— Jeffrey Zeldman, author, Designing With Web Standards
“When I wanted to introduce content strategy as a ‘must’ for eBay
Europe, I bought a copy of Content Strategy for the Web for everyone I
needed to influence. Two years and a content strategy team later, it
clearly worked! By far the most comprehensive and accessible book on
content strategy available. Required reading for our entire team.”
— Lucie Hyde, Head of Content, eBay Europe
“Content Strategy for the Web is the most important thing to happen to
user experience design in years.”
— Peter Morville, author, Information Architecture for the World Wide Web and
Ambient Findability
“Marketers, take note: From mobile and social media to email and
websites, killer content is central to your online success—but without a
solid, centralized content strategy, you’re doomed from the start. Like
no other book, Content Strategy for the Web gives you the tools you
need to get the right content to the right people in the right place at the
right time. Essential reading for marketers everywhere.”
— Ann Handley, CMO, MarketingProfs and author, Content Rules
“This is the go-to handbook for creating an effective content strategy.
The Post-It® notes and dog-eared pages in my copy are evidence of
that!”
— Aaron Watkins, Director of Digital Strategy, Johns Hopkins Medicine
“Kristina Halvorson and her company, Brain Traffic, are central to the
emerging discipline of content strategy.”

-- 6 of 193 --

— James Mathewson, Search Strategy and Expertise Lead, IBM
“Content Strategy for the Web touched off the explosive growth of
content strategy and its recognition as a critical field of practice.
Amazingly, this second edition doesn’t just keep up: it pushes content
strategy in a more mature—and valuable—direction.”
— Louis Rosenfeld, author, Information Architecture for the World Wide Web
and Search Analytics for Your Site
“Kristina Halvorson is a force to be reckoned with. In three short years,
she has single-handedly brought content strategy to the forefront of the
UX community’s attention. I’m in awe of how quickly she’s mobilized
a small army of content strategists, and can’t wait to see where she goes
next.”
— Jared Spool, CEO and Founding Principal, User Interface Engineering
“This little red book is responsible for changing the way I think about
designing for the Web, and I don’t think I’m alone. After a decade of
treating content like an afterthought, Content Strategy for the Web
helped us fix our priorities, and gave us a better way forward.”
— Ethan Marcotte, author, Responsive Web Design
“The web isn’t about only your website anymore. What does that mean
for your content strategy? Kristina and Melissa answer with sassy and
sound advice.”
— Colleen Jones, author, Clout: The Art and Science of Influential Web Content
“If the loss of potential customers and brand degradation keep you up at
night, good. There may not be monsters under your bed, but they’re in
your web presence—and they’re coming to get you. Content Strategy
for the Web offers practical, effective techniques to keep the monsters at
bay, whether you’re waging war in a small business or on behalf of a
corporate behemoth. Scared? Not anymore.”
— Margot Bloomstein, Principal, Appropriate, Inc. and author, Content
Strategy at Work
“If you want your organization or your clients to be successful online,
you need to help them think—and act—strategically about all their
content. You need this book.”

-- 7 of 193 --

— Janice (Ginny) Redish, author, Letting Go of the Words: Writing Web
Content that Works

-- 8 of 193 --

For the staff at Brain Traffic, whose hard work, brave
insights, and shared sense of humor inspired every page
that follows ... again.
And for our families, whose loving patience and support
made this book possible.

-- 9 of 193 --

“The best people are the ones that understand
content.
They’re a pain in the butt to manage, but you put up
with
it because they are so good.”
— Steve Jobs

-- 10 of 193 --

Contents
Foreword: The Rapid Rise of Content Strategy at Facebook and
Beyond (Sarah Cancilla, Facebook)
Before We Begin...
REALITY
1 NOW
Hit the ground running.
2 PROBLEM
Why does your content (still) suck?
3 SOLUTION
Content strategy to the rescue.
DISCOVERY
4 ALIGNMENT
Down with silos, up with people.
5 AUDIT
Take a close-up look at your current content.
6 ANALYSIS
Your content lives in a complicated world.
STRATEGY
7 CORE
Core strategy: the center of it all.
8 CONTENT
Substance and structure: the stuff they come for.
9 PEOPLE
Workflow and governance: the path to victory.

-- 11 of 193 --

SUCCESS
10 PERSUASION
Making the case for content strategy.
11 ADVOCACY
Get out there and do something.
12 HERO
Save the content, save the world.
Content strategy reading list
Acknowledgments
About the authors
About Brain Traffic
Index

-- 12 of 193 --

Foreword
The Rapid rise of Content Strategy at Facebook and Beyond
At Facebook, employees are empowered to be bold in the name of
innovation. “Move Fast and Break Things,” “What Would You Do If
You Weren’t Afraid?” and “Done Is Better Than Perfect” are a few of the
mottos pasted on the walls at Facebook headquarters.
Back in 2009, Facebook content was getting “done,” but it was far from
perfect. Engineers, designers and product managers were writing most of
the copy. If you had a keyboard, you were a copywriter. If you could
commit code, you were a publisher. And there was a lot of content:
menus, navigation text, product tours, multi-step forms, nomenclature,
in-product education, help pages, blog posts, and much more. Less-than-
perfect content meant confused and frustrated users, and it was taking its
toll on the brand.
The Facebook Design and User Experience team decided it was time to
create a new role within the department. They called it “content
strategist.”
Just a few weeks before the job posting went up, the first edition of
Content Strategy for the Web was published. Soon after, the Facebook
team contacted author Kristina Halvorson for advice about the position,
and she graciously offered suggestions about what to say in the posting
and where to look for candidates. She also helped get the word out.
I’d been working as a content strategist at eBay for several years when I
spotted Kristina’s reference to the job posting. I tucked my already well-
worn copy of Kristina’s book under my arm and headed off to interview
at Facebook. They hired me.
Soon after I started at Facebook, I discovered that most of my new
coworkers thought “content strategist” was a highfalutin term for “copy
editor.” They filled my inbox with questions like, “Is there a better word
for this?” and “Should the period go inside or outside the quotation
mark?” I even had an engineer free-type my rough copy ideas directly
into the code for the live site. Thrilling, yes, but not exactly the
methodical, holistic process I was hoping for.
I needed to find a way to introduce real content strategy into a system
that was hardwired to reject anything that might gunk up the works. In

-- 13 of 193 --

the past, I might have organized a meet-n-greet/dog-and-pony/brown-bag
extravaganza to educate to my colleagues about the benefits of content
strategy. But my usual approach wasn’t going to fly at a company that
valued action far above talk. Instead, I heeded the “move fast” writing on
the walls and focused on gaining quick wins.
I first set my sights on a group of links in the lower corner of the
Facebook homepage. These links offered people the chance to invite
friends to Facebook, connect with friends already there, and try
Facebook Mobile. The links didn’t drive a lot of traffic and weren’t an
important piece of the team’s strategy, so they didn’t want to dedicate
resources to improving them. But I was welcome to change the copy. So
I did, relying completely on my content strategy intuition to guide my
decisions (there was no time for testing, after all). At the very least, I
knew I could make the calls to action clearer and more compelling.
Mere hours after I made my quick-and-dirty changes, we rolled out the
new version of the content module. The result? Net traffic to this area of
the page rose 56%. Which is to say, six million more people found
friends, invited friends, and tried Facebook Mobile every week, purely as
a result of those tiny improvements.
Over the next few months, I gained a few more quick wins for content.
And each time I tackled a project or fulfilled a request, I carefully framed
my proposals in the context of the larger Facebook content strategy that
was beginning to evolve. I also tailored my recommendations to the
audience at hand: When working with engineers, I tried to make things
simple and empirical, often relying on spreadsheets and “if-then”
statements. With designers, I went visual. And with executive
stakeholders, I always made an effort to reference bigger-picture goals.
When someone championed the cause of content strategy, that person
became a “FOCS” (friend of content strategy), and was awarded a
coveted FOCS tee. As in, “You know that guy Matt? He’s a total FOCS.”
Soon, people started to solicit my help on more complex problems.
Questions about tone, structure and site-wide consistency began to
outnumber those about grammar and syntax. The company began giving
enthusiastic support (and budget) for longer-term, content-driven
initiatives.
Today, a mere two years later, there are nine content strategists on the
Facebook team, and we hope to welcome several more by the end of
2012. We work alongside product managers, designers, engineers, and

-- 14 of 193 --

user researchers on every major product launch. We’ve developed a
comprehensive set of content standards for the company. And we serve
as a hub for the teams throughout Facebook that touch user-facing
content, including product marketing, user operations, and the lawyers.
In the two years since I started at Facebook and Content Strategy for the
Web first came out, the discipline has come into its own. Meetup groups
have formed all over the world. People are gathering at conferences
dedicated exclusively to content. Not unlike Facebook itself, content
strategy has spun into a spirited community of people who are excited to
share new ideas and perspectives—allowing the discipline to advance at
an amazing clip.
Content Strategy for the Web has played a huge role in educating web
practitioners and business leaders about why good content matters. Not
only does the book champion a strategic approach to content, it also
demystifies how to do it. Whether you’re a seasoned content strategist or
it’s your first time at the rodeo, you’ve got everything you need to create,
deliver, and govern useful, usable content right here.
Facebook’s culture is unique, but what moved the cause of content
strategy forward here could happen anywhere—including where you
work.
• Demonstrate value on your own terms. Be proactive, and identify
tiny projects that will showcase the benefits of content strategy.
Then get them done, with or without resources.
• Apply content strategy to your content strategy. Frame each
recommendation and each success within the context of the larger
content strategy, even if the request was tactical in nature. And do it
in a way that will appeal to your audience.
• Friend everyone. Cultivate allies, find your FOCSes, and make
them T-shirts.
In 2009, the content strategy community was small. Now it’s vast, and
eager to support you in your efforts to make a better web through better
content. Today, when you tell people you’re a content strategist, the
question is no longer, “What’s content strategy?” Now it’s, “When can
you start?”
Join us as we move toward a web where content strategy is not simply
nice to have, but an essential part of what we make and imagine.

-- 15 of 193 --

Sarah Cancilla
Content Strategist, Facebook

-- 16 of 193 --

Before We Begin...
If you’re reading this book for the first time, then hello! It’s lovely to
meet you. And if you’re familiar with the first edition, then hey,
welcome back. Glad to see you again. Give us a hug.
So. Things out there in the world of content strategy have changed pretty
significantly since the first edition of Content Strategy for the Web was
published. What used to be a niche topic discussed by only a few
hardcore content nerds has become a worldwide movement in
organizations of all shapes and sizes. Hooray! More hugs all around.
As the conversation continues to gain momentum, the field of content
strategy is evolving at lightning speed. And so, by necessity, this second
edition of Content Strategy for the Web is a much different book from the
first. But don’t worry. All new material has evolved directly from the
methodology described in the first edition; all revisions are based on the
shared knowledge of the wider content strategy community, and our own
experiences at Brain Traffic, our Minneapolis-based content strategy
firm.
And now, a few things to note:
What this Book Is
This book is an introduction to the practice of content strategy. It
describes some of the key benefits, roles, activities, and deliverables
associated with content strategy.
We wrote this book for people who want to understand what content
strategy is, why it’s important, and how to go about getting it done.
This book also makes the case for content strategy as a legitimate,
necessary practice in any and all organizations that create and publish
content online.
Throughout the book, we describe processes and methodologies that may
be applied to all kinds of content (not only text). And as you read,
remember that just about everything we write about can be scaled and
tailored to fit your needs.
What this Book is Not
This book is not The Complete Guide to Everything You Ever Need to
Know About Content Strategy, Ever.

-- 17 of 193 --

We hope you find this book a valuable reference tool for a long time to
come, but don’t mistake it as the only book you’ll ever need. In fact, here
are a few specific topics this book intentionally does not cover (at all, or
in detail):
• Content management systems (CMS) strategy (software selection,
design, and implementation)
• Translation and localization
• Personalization and behavioral targeting
• Content marketing
• Social media planning
• Metadata strategy
• SEO
• Reuse and structured content (or “intelligent content”)
• Single-channel strategy (e.g., mobile)
Yes, a content strategist will often assume responsibility for the activities
and deliverables associated with each of these. In many cases, there are
already several solid resources available about these practices, both
online and offline. We’re keeping our focus on an introduction to content
strategy, so we’ve made it our job to synthesize this information and
frame it up in ways that allow teams to tackle content challenges
holistically.
What’s New in this Edition
When you set out to write a second edition, it’s awfully tempting to scrap
everything and write an entirely different book. Instead, we’ve tried to
strike a balance: plenty of new information for readers of the first
edition, but a similar introductory flavor for our first-time readers.
As the proud owner of this shiny new edition, here’s what you’ll get:
• Expanded and restructured processes and tools for the research,
development, and implementation phases of content strategy
• Recent case studies examining the impact content strategy has had
on a variety of small and large organizations
• An examination of the ways content-focused disciplines and job
roles work together
• Discussion of the roadblocks you may encounter and ways the field
of content strategy continues to evolve

-- 18 of 193 --

A Note about Content Strategy for the “Web”
Content strategy. It’s not just for websites anymore.
Actually, content strategy was never just for websites. In fact, it’s been
around a lot longer than the web. So why all the recent attention?
While organizations have struggled for decades—centuries, even—to
make sense of their content, they were always able to keep the chaos
(and the consequences) to themselves. Then came websites, which
created the perfect content strategy storm. Suddenly, organizations had to
put all of their content (product info, investor reports, press releases, etc.,
etc.) in one place. For the first time. For all the world to see. And, it hurt.
You can redesign a home page. You can buy a new CMS. But unless you
treat your content with strategic consideration, you can’t fix your
website. Once people started to accept this fact, the conversation took
off. It’s a pain point everyone shares, and content strategy offers relief.
Here’s the other thing: In our opinion, focusing on the web is still the
easiest way to learn about content strategy. Once you “get” content
strategy for the web, you can easily see its applications across
platforms and throughout the enterprise.
All that said: Throughout the book, when we use the phrases “web,”
“online,” or “interactive” content, we’re often not just talking about
websites. The overarching goals and approaches of content strategy are
relevant across every medium, platform, and device. As evolving
technology continues to throw us one curve ball after the next, keeping a
handle on our content—no matter where it is and who it’s for—has
become more critical than ever.
And Now, the Book
Okay, that should be everything. Thanks for your patience with all of this
preamble stuff.
You can go ahead and read the book now.
Enjoy.

-- 19 of 193 --

Reality
Behold, your content. Your business needs it. Your users want it. And yet
no one seems quite sure what to do with it. A website redesign? A new
CMS? Whatever the case, you’re ready for a change. Let’s put your
content to work.

-- 20 of 193 --

1. Now
YOU LIE AWAKE AT NIGHT thinking about your content. There’s so much to
fix. So much to plan for. You want to get ahead, but you can barely keep
up with what’s happening day-to-day. The last time you tried talking to
someone about The Big Picture, the conversation was cut short by yet
another “content emergency” that put you right back in reactive mode.
And the content keeps coming. And coming. And coming.
Wow, one paragraph in and you’re already crying a little?
Wipe away your tears, dear reader. Because, just for you, we’ve written a
very short, non-scary chapter that introduces a few great ways to tackle
even your toughest content challenges. (In fact, when you’re finished,
you’ll think, “Gee, that wasn’t so bad!” And that is our way of tricking
you into reading the rest of the book.)
Think Big, Start Small
Good news: you can significantly improve your organization’s content in
a fairly short amount of time by taking on any of the following efforts:
1. Do less, not more.
2. Figure out what you have and where it’s coming from.
3. Learn how to listen.
4. Put someone in charge.
5. Take action ... now.
Don’t worry about having your proverbial ducks in a row before you
dive in to content strategy. You don’t need months of planning, a new
staff, and a million dollars to do it. As Lao Tzu once said, “The journey
of a thousand miles begins with one step.” So let’s get moving.
(Requisite “Lao Tzu quote in a book about strategy”: check.)
#1: Do Less, Not More
Consultant David Hobbs once wrote, “Small websites are easier to
manage than big ones. Since this is obvious, why don’t more sites choose
to be smaller?”
Of course, it’s rarely an intentional choice. A website tends to take on a
life of its own, its growth fueled by new products and services, changing
brand campaigns, multiple publishers, constantly-shifting executive

-- 21 of 193 --

priorities, user-generated content, and more. Beyond the website, there
are company blogs, Twitter feeds, press releases, email communications,
and so on. The Great River of Content flows freely, rapidly flooding our
customers with too much information and drowning its keepers (web
editors and content managers) in the process.
Why do we need all this content? What’s the point?
It seems that, in many organizations, more content is perceived as more
selling opportunities, more user engagement, more help, more
everything. But that’s rarely the case. Generally speaking, content is
more or less worthless unless it does one or both of the following:
• Supports a key business objective
• Fulfills your users’ needs
If you assessed all of your current content, how much of it would meet
these two simple requirements? Ninety-five percent? Seventy-five
percent? Less than half? Are you chuckling ruefully and nodding your
head yet?
Less content is easier to manage
When we talk about content getting published online, we often refer to it
as going “live.” Interestingly enough, we seem to think that our content
will magically continue to maintain itself, without care and feeding. But
spend 30 seconds tooling around almost any website, and you’ll find this
is patently untrue. Dead blogs. Outdated product descriptions. Broken
links. Irrelevant search engine results.
The countless ways in which our web content dies on the vine are
painful, and sometimes dangerous. It’s one thing to change our brand
voice on one media channel but ignore our web content. It’s another to
neglect content that may expose us to legal action by a customer or
competitor.
By publishing less content, you will have less content to keep track of
over time. It’s a simple equation.
Less content is more user-friendly
Let’s say you’re ready to shop around for new auto insurance. You’ve
written down a few top-of-mind insurance brands, including Geico and
State Farm.
For starters, you open a browser and type in www.geico.com. You scroll
down the home page just a bit, and here is what you see:

-- 22 of 193 --

In the first three seconds of staring at this page, how confident do you
feel that you’ll find the information you’re looking for?
Now you decide you’ll give the Geico site search engine a try. You go to
the search box and, type in types of insurance. Here are your results:
Hmm. Pretty worthless. How do you feel now? Frustrated? Resentful?
Like leaving?

-- 23 of 193 --

Too much content means information is harder to find, whether on the
page or within your site. And that means it’s harder for a customer to
make a decision in favor of your product or service.
By contrast, take a look at State Farm’s home page:
Clean. Concise. No-nonsense. You’re in, you’re out. And you’re happy.
Less content costs less to create
How’s that for a forehead-slapper?
By prioritizing useful and relevant over “wouldn’t it be cool” and “just in
case,” you will magically dismiss at least half of your web content
projects. That means you’ll free up time and money for things like
planning and measurement, two content-related tasks that often get short
shrift in the race to do more online.
How can you begin to scale back on content? Ensure that your website
content maps back to key business objectives and user goals. Create a
web editorial calendar that specifies when and why new content will be
published. And, moving forward, stop creating so much “just-in-case”
content.
#2: Figure Out What you have and Where it’s Coming From
You may dream of throwing out your old content and starting over.
Reality would like to disagree with that idea. The content you have exists
for one reason or another (even if they aren’t good reasons), so before
you can do anything with it, you’re going to need to look at it. And the
best way to accurately assess your current content woes is to conduct a

-- 24 of 193 --

content audit. An audit is an accounting of all currently published web
content, with all the details recorded in a spreadsheet.
There are two basic kinds of audits—quantitative inventories and
qualitative assessments. As information architecture expert Christina
Wodtke says, an inventory catalogs “what’s there” and an assessment
answers the question: “is it any damn good?”* Depending on your
situation you can do one or both.
*http://www.contentcompany.biz/articles/content_audit.html
Many people only think of audits when they are redesigning a website or
migrating content to a new content management system (CMS), but
audits are valuable at any time during the life of your content. In fact,
doing a content audit can be a terrific first step in building a
business case for content strategy. Simply putting everything together
in one big, scary-looking document and saying, “Yes, hello, have you
seen what a disaster our website is lately?” can often spur people to
action.
If you’re dealing with a few hundred pages of content, you can and
should take on a content audit immediately. If you’re a larger
organization with thousands of pages, a comprehensive content audit
may simply be impossible to take on all at once. But that doesn’t mean it
shouldn’t happen.
Ready to dig in immediately? Head on over to Chapter 5, Audit.
#3: Learn how to Listen
In our experience, most content problems exist simply because no one
has ever asked the right kinds of questions about it: specifically,
questions that focus on the people and processes that have an impact on
its lifecycle. But even when organizations are asking the right questions,
it’s still only half of the equation. If you’re going to get the right
answers, you need to learn how to listen.
So who should you listen to? Your boss? The “experts”? That guy in the
cube next to you who keeps reading over your shoulder and making
comments about what you should do?
Generally speaking, we encourage you to...
• Listen to your colleagues. When it comes to content development
and maintenance, people have specific needs and challenges that
deserve to be acknowledged. Content ownership spans several roles
and responsibilities: requesters, providers, creators,

-- 25 of 193 --

reviewers/approvers, and publishers. Their skills, tools, and
perspectives must be assessed and considered as you develop your
content strategy.
• Listen to your users. It’s such an obvious statement, but it bears
repeating (and repeating, and repeating): No one knows better what
your customer needs than your customer. Although many of us truly
believe we know exactly what our end users really want from us
online, we can’t know unless we ask them.
The best thing you can do is simply to stop assuming you already know
the answers to the questions you’ve been asking. The harder you listen,
the better you’ll understand the rationale, politics, emotions, and
motivations behind the reasons content-related decisions are (or aren’t)
being made. After all, you’re not creating plans for some alternate reality
in which everything perfectly unfolds according to The Strategy. You’re
planning for human beings and their ever-shifting needs and desires—
also known as the real world.
For more information on how to craft the right questions for your content
discovery process, see Chapter 4, Alignment, and Chapter 6, Analysis.
#4: Put Someone in Charge
So. Who owns your web content?
Because we are psychic (we’ll get to your love life and money issues
later), we predict you will answer one of the following three ways:
• Lots of people.
• One person, except that person is mostly just in charge of fulfilling
other people’s content requests.
• Huh. I have no idea.
In other words ... no one. No one owns the web content. That means no
one has a real sense of what’s out there: Is it up to date? Accurate? Still
relevant? Most importantly, though, there’s no one who actually gets to
say “no.” And that, dear reader, is bad.
Here’s where we turn to the world of print publishing for some insight.
Have newspapers been coming together day after day, year after year
under distributed publishing models with no executive editorial
oversight? No. Does a magazine make it to press thanks to a staff of
writers whose marching orders are to acquiesce to every “emergency”
content request? No. Also? No.

-- 26 of 193 --

Your organization needs to have a person—or specific people—offically
In Charge of All Things Web Content. This doesn’t mean they need to be
solely responsible for all web content creation, delivery, and governance.
It means that they are charged with the same duties as an editor-in-chief
(or executive editor) is for a print publication—overseeing high-level
processes, budgets, and policies.
In a larger organization, it’s likely that a team will work together to
oversee content production and maintenance. The most important point,
here, is that specific individuals or teams must be empowered to make
content-related decisions ... especially when it comes to saying “no.”
For more information on content workflow and ownership, see Chapter
9, People.
#5: Take Action ... Now
Still feeling overwhelmed? That’s okay. But we’re going to ask you to
take a deep breath and get ready to “fake it ’til you make it”—that is, to
dive in and start swimming.
You have to start somewhere, sometime, so you might as well start now.
There are lots of things you can do to get the ball rolling, whether or not
you have approval or budget. For example, you can:
• Ask your boss which part of the website drives her craziest, then
talk about how to approach improving it.
• Start asking specific questions about content—its purpose, the
people who own it, and so on.
• Educate yourself. Read articles, participate in group forums, and
listen to podcasts to better arm yourself with the right ammunition
when your ideas come under fire.
• Take colleagues to coffee or lunch. Ask questions and listen
carefully. Let them know you’re on their side, even when they’re at
odds with each other. Start building trust by focusing people on the
outcome: better content, less pain and suffering.
Most of all, don’t be afraid to “fake it til you make it.” You don’t need to
be an expert in content strategy to dive in and start getting things done.
You Can Do It!
Hey, check you out! Just a few pages in, and already you’re acquainted
with some of the tried-and-true methods of successful content strategists

-- 27 of 193 --

everywhere. Do you feel smarter? You look smarter. Go walk around and
see if anyone notices.
Now comes the caveat. The reality is that, within most organizations,
content has always been an afterthought—it’s considered a byproduct of
people’s everyday efforts, rather than an asset that requires strategic
consideration. No one accurately plans for it. No one has time to slow
down and think about it. It’s last on the list of things to spend time,
money, or effort on.
You can handle this. You can make things right. But first, you need to
understand what’s wrong.

-- 28 of 193 --

2. Problem
GREAT CONTENT MEETS USERS’ NEEDS and supports key business objectives.
It engages and informs. It’s well-written and intuitively organized. It
keeps people coming back for more. But when content sucks—when it’s
overwritten, redundant, hard to find, irrelevant—people come, look, and
leave. And, sometimes, they never come back. Most of the content we
find online is simply in the way—even outdated or straight-up
inaccurate. It’s not doing what we need it to do. And somehow, we can’t
seem to get it fixed. It’s always the elephant in the room, the one thing
no one really wants to talk about. And man, that is one ugly elephant.
So whose fault is this content crisis, anyway? And who’s going to clean
up this mess?
No Finger-Pointing Allowed
It’s very unlikely that your content challenges are caused by a single
person or department. Content is a complex, hairy beast that depends on
myriad people, technologies, and processes. When you can find a shared
language to discuss your content challenges, you’ll be better able to
collaborate with your colleagues and identify solutions.
In this chapter, we’ll look at some of the most common obstacles that
keep us from turning bad content into better content:
• We treat content like a commodity.
• We don’t have time to make a plan.
• We make deadly assumptions.
• Content is political.
• It’s all too much, and we’ll never move forward.
And now, let’s take a few pages to bond together about our frustrations,
hopes, and fears. You are not alone. It’s time for content therapy.

-- 29 of 193 --

copyright 2008 Kevin Cornell
How do you eat the elephant in the room?
We Treat Content Like a Commodity
Delivering great content requires some kind of investment: user research,
strategic planning, meaningful metadata, web writing skills, and editorial
oversight. It requires real people and real resources to get it right, and it’s
not easy. That’s why so many of our organizations are constantly looking
for shortcuts to getting the content done. When we take that attitude, we
start to see content as piles and piles of stuff that can be acquired at will.
Here are some examples.
Let’s Go Get Some Content
To some, automatic aggregation of content (via RSS feeds or back-end
algorithms) seems like a smart, painless alternative to the complicated,
time-intensive, ongoing content creation process.
Similarly, the idea that we can pay to publish syndicated content under
our own brand umbrella is wholly appealing. Sign on the dotted line, and
fresh content will be delivered daily to your customers, courtesy of
Custom Publisher Number Nine.
These aren’t inherently bad ideas. In fact, working with content that’s
produced outside of your organization might be the right decision. But
don’t mistake these tactics as your answers to a long-term content
strategy. Quality, relevant content can’t be spotted by an algorithm. You

-- 30 of 193 --

can’t just license it and then walk away. You need people to create or
curate it.
Let’s Publish as Much Content as we Possibly Can
There was once a client who was very interested in producing massive
amounts of content on his website. His idea was that the more content he
had:
• The better his search engine rankings would be
• The more value he would provide to his online audiences
• The more chance he had of creating “competitive differentiation” in
his industry
Yes, content can do a lot. However, the website this client was hell-bent
on creating would incur much greater costs than he could ever anticipate
—in time, money, brand value, and customer satisfaction.
The more content you have, the harder it is to keep up with: it ages
quickly, breaks our navigation systems, and starts piling up in ways we
never expected. Suddenly, we find our users are struggling to complete
the tasks they came to do—gather information, make a decision, get
help, share relevant content with friends. A user doesn’t want endless
options. He wants the content he needs, when and where he needs it.
Let’s Get Users to Generate the Content for us
Although “user-generated content” may sound like “content you don’t
have to create,” unfortunately there’s a catch: You can’t always depend
on your audience to deliver the goods.
Let’s say you own a technology company, and you’re looking for ways
to save money on phone-based customer support. Your website support
section has been sorely neglected for years. You decide to launch a
forum so that your customers can help solve each other’s problems—a
low-cost and, you believe, low-maintenance solution.
The forum launches. A few customers show up and pose questions.
Other customers don’t answer the questions, so your intern does. More
questions trickle in. But with so few posts, and so few visitors, the forum
feels like an empty restaurant, or a lame party that no one attended.
Within a few months, the “last post” dates are looking old and tired. And
your phone support costs haven’t decreased by a cent.
What went wrong? Beyond the forum launch, there wasn’t a plan. No
one considered how to advertise or seed the forum, let alone drive user

-- 31 of 193 --

adoption.
If you’re considering ways in which user-generated content can help you
achieve business objectives and meet your end users’ goals, be very
realistic about the fact that it’s hard work to make it work well. It can
happen. But it’s neither cheap nor automatic.
Speaking of cheap...
Let’s buy Content for $4
In 2009, Elizabeth Saloka wrote a Brain Traffic blog post titled,
“Bangalore, We Have a Problem,” that sums things up quite nicely:
I’ve just stumbled on a company called Niche Writers India that offers
web content for $4. Four. Dollars. That’s, like, a sandwich. A gas
station sandwich.
Since when did web content become a cheap commodity? We’re not
talking about zipper togs and baby socks! We’re talking about
communication. Often, very technical and advanced communication.
A sample of what you can expect for your four dollars:
“Niche Writers India is the core when it comes to writing and this is
what our clients feel about our content writing services expanding to
various domains and collaterals. We have bubbling, energetic and
youthful warp and woof of writers!”
... Niche Writers India, though not in the manner it intends, makes a
compelling case for the value of a good web writer. Hopefully after
seeing this site, would-be value shoppers will decide to invest (more
than $4) in their content.*
*http://blog.braintraffic.com/2009/01/bangalore-we-have-a-problem/
Of course, if you’re comparison shopping based on price alone, you may
think it’s no big deal to sacrifice some degree of quality in order to save
money. Don’t do that. To truly differentiate yourself online, you must
offer content that specifically and authentically embodies your brand.
Your content must help your audience do something—better, smarter,
and with greater ease.
Content that works for your business and that matters to your users
is not a commodity. Done well, content can engage your users, answer
their questions, and motivate them to take action. Done poorly, it will
cause you to lose your audiences’ attention and trust.

-- 32 of 193 --

We don’t have Time to Make a Plan
Do any of these statements sound familiar?
“This needs to go on the home page.”
“We should be on YouTube.”
“I need this series of brochures converted for the web.”
“We have to put our new mission statement in the About Us section.”
“Let’s write another dozen articles next month.”
“We have to launch a blog.”
Oh, really?
Why?
In your desire to deliver—to employers, clients, customers—you may
tend to race right past strategy and into execution. It’s not that you’re not
interested in doing the right thing. It’s simply that you’re under constant
pressure to deliver, to do something you can show your boss (and your
boss’s boss). You’re expected to churn out requests, tasks, initiatives, and
documentation as quickly as possible. That leaves very little time to step
back, take a breath, and ask: “Why are we doing all this in the first
place?”
Creating content might be a good tactic, but it isn’t something you
should do just because you can.
We Make Deadly Assumptions
Let’s say you’re a subject matter expert at your company. There’s a
website redesign project happening, and you’ve agreed to take
responsibility for your department’s content. Hooray!
You know the project kicked off sometime last quarter, but you haven’t
heard much about it since then. Then one fine Tuesday around 2 p.m., an
email pops up in your inbox...
SUBJECT: Website content: It’s go time!
Hey, you! [Project manager] here. We’re finally ready to have you
start cracking on your share of the content. You should find all the
information you need in the attachments:
• Content inventory: Just look for your initials next to the pages
you’re supposed to write.

-- 33 of 193 --

• Page templates: You can build your documentation off of these.
• Source material: This is what we could come up with. Hopefully
it’ll do.
• SEO keyword guidelines: If you have any questions, just let me
know.
Okay! If we could see a first draft by A WEEK FROM TOMORROW
(next Wednesday), that would be great. Just send it to me. Thank you!
From where you sit, this email might as well have been written in
Sanskrit and sent from a land of unicorns and fairy dust. What is all this
stuff? What’s a page template? Why is your name next to random things
in the “About Us” section?
This is exactly the kind of email you’ll flag for review, then proceed to
ignore for the rest of the week. Why? First, because it’s confusing and
overwhelming, and it makes you feel stupid. Second, you’re fully
booked through next week and the project manager is going to have to
wait. And finally, you’re just straight up resentful that the project
manager would assume you could drop everything and do this.
Obviously, this situation sucks, as situations often do when our actions
are based on assumptions and not reality. In this instance you (the subject
matter expert) and the project manager made a tacit agreement at the
beginning of the project: content shouldn’t be too hard, because it’s
probably just some copywriting to support a bunch of content we already
have. So let’s talk about it later when we’re closer to our deadlines.
Gong.
“Doing the Content” Isn’t Like Copywriting
When people think about the content development process, they often
think about it sort of like baking a cake. Get the ingredients (gather
source content); stir them up (compile, write, edit); cook it (finalize and
approve); then frost it (add it to the design).

-- 34 of 193 --

copyright 2011 Sean Tubridy
This is exactly the kind of thinking that leads to eleventh-hour content
catastrophes. Because, in reality, “doing the content” is a whole lot more
like running a bakery. There are countless details to consider. You have
to manage people. Equipment is expensive, and it breaks. And what if
the recipes are wrong or the donuts burn or you’re losing money... you
get the picture.
copyright 2011 Sean Tubridy
Getting your content right requires a whole lot more planning and
upkeep than a print brochure. Helping others to understand this reality is
a solid first step toward a successful content strategy.
Content is Political

-- 35 of 193 --

Okay! After weeks of blood, sweat, and tears, you have a first draft of
the content finished. Whew. Now, it’s time to circulate it to the folks who
need to review it.
Here’s what happens next:
• The information architect hasn’t seen this copy since it was “lorem
ipsum” in the wireframes, and if she’d known it was going to say
THAT, she would have taken a totally different approach.
• Marketing needs to sit down with you to ensure brand, messaging,
and word usage are consistent with current campaign and style
guidelines. (Which, didn’t you hear? Those changed again three
weeks ago. Here’s the new 100-page manual.)
• The business owners, by the way, aren’t too happy with the
direction marketing is taking with this new campaign. They’re
totally missing the boat on at least 14 key benefits, here. Can you
take a stab at incorporating those benefits into your copy?
• Legal is sick and tired of the way everyone seems to be willfully
ignoring the fact that we are required by law to include this 800-
word disclaimer on every page that mentions this one particular
service. They would prefer to see it at the top of the page so that no
one will miss it. While they’re at it, they have some input about the
way you’ve phrased a few hundred sentences.
• By the way, your CMS team is going to need two months to enter
all this content into the CMS now, not two weeks. This is a lot more
than they expected. Sorry.
Um. Hey. Whoa.
When it comes to web content, everyone has something to say. And
when no one owns the content, priorities clash, and compromise can end
up trumping best practices.
Making decisions that are primarily driven by many opinions puts you in
danger of a free-for-all that seriously threatens your content quality,
consistency, and effectiveness. As the adage goes, you can’t make all the
people happy all the time. Everyone has an agenda, but there’s
something you can agree on: You want your content to succeed, both for
your business and for your users. A solid content strategy helps align
stakeholders on priorities and desired outcomes, which makes life easier
for everyone. For more, see Chapter 4, Alignment.

-- 36 of 193 --

When it comes to content, no organizational unit stands alone. The table
on page 24 shows how differing priorities and choices can impact
content quality.
EVERY ORGANIZATIONAL UNIT HAS AN IMPACT
It’s All too Much and We’ll Never Move Forward
Figuring out what exactly is wrong with your world of content isn’t
always easy. But once you’ve identified and described the problems in
detail, you have a whole new challenge on your hands: deciding what to
do next. Of course, that’s going to require several conversations with all
kinds of people, and those people are going to have questions like:
• What is content strategy? How can it help me?
• When does content strategy start? How?
• Who does it? Where can we find these people? Who should they
report to? Should we use outside firms to do the work?
• What are the roles and responsibilities people need to assume during
the content strategy process?

-- 37 of 193 --

• We have a website/mobile/CMS project looming (or already
underway). Where exactly does content strategy fit in?
And, the question you’ll hear the most will likely be the one that keeps
you awake at night:
• Why should we invest in content strategy?
These are all excellent questions, and it’s very reasonable to expect lots
of discussion around them. Depending on your role on a project or in
your company, that might be pretty intimidating. But here’s what’s great:
When the time comes, you’re going to be the expert everyone turns to for
insight and information. You know why? Because you are going to keep
reading this book. You are going to learn a whole lot about content
strategy in not a whole lot of pages. And then you are going to put on
your content strategy cape and get out there to save the content—to be
the hero you were always meant to be.
Let’s go! (Insert rousing orchestral music and confetti.)

-- 38 of 193 --

3. Solution
WHAT IS CONTENT STRATEGY? Is it a practice? A document? What does it
include? Who’s responsible for it? How is it implemented? Can we
measure its success?
Your enthusiasm is palpable. We like it. We share it. Let’s dig in.
Re-Envisioning Content
Once we recognize content as a valuable business asset, we start to see it
as more than just pixels or PDFs. And once we can identify goals for our
content that serve both our organizations and our users, we can start to
align our efforts to form a cohesive strategy. That strategy will then help
us prioritize our content initiatives, streamline our efforts, and use our
resources as effectively as possible.
In this chapter, we will:
• Explain what content strategy is (and is not).
• Examine the key elements of content strategy.
• Explore who does this work.
What is Content Strategy?
Well, first of all, what is “content”? Content is what the user came to
read, learn, see, or experience. From a business perspective, the content
is the critical information the website, application, intranet, or any other
delivery vehicle was created to contain or communicate.
Depending on who you are and what you need to do, content strategy can
mean a few different things.
Content strategy:
• Defines how you’re going to use content to meet your business (or
project) goals and satisfy your users’ needs
• Guides decisions about content throughout its lifecycle, from
discovery to deletion
• Sets benchmarks against which to measure the success of your
content
In summary: Content strategy guides your plans for the creation,
delivery, and governance of content.

-- 39 of 193 --

Sometimes, content strategy may focus specifically on the editorial,
structural, or technical aspects of content. And sometimes, it may be an
enterprise-wide effort that’s directly tied to high-level business
strategies. In either case, content strategy helps us find ways to better
understand all aspects of our content, which means we can make smarter,
more informed decisions about how we’re going to select and execute
our tactics.
What isn’t Content Strategy?
When some people talk about their “content strategy,” they’re actually
talking about what they plan to deliver online, and where. In this context,
a content strategy may be described as:
• A series of educational articles
• A full-service, online knowledge base
• An employee blog post series
• A new tablet subscription service
• Social media accounts
These things, when combined, do not make up a strategy. They’re just a
bunch of tactics.
A strategy is an idea that sets the direction for the future. Once you’ve
decided on your strategy, you can benchmark tactics against it simply by
asking, “Will this help us get to where we’re going?” Imagine your
strategy as a lighthouse that keeps you headed in the right direction, no
matter how stormy the waters may become.
How does Content Strategy Work?
As anyone practicing content strategy will tell you, the answer to this
question is never cut and dried. In fact, it’s what we’re tackling in this
book, which is sort of meta but let’s move on.
Before we can talk about how content strategy works, we need to
introduce what we refer to as “the quad”—an image that displays the
critical components of content strategy. These are the things that affect
whether or not your content ends up usable and valuable, both to your
users and your business.

-- 40 of 193 --

copyright 2010 Brain Traffic
At the very center is the core content strategy. This defines how an
organization (or project) will use content to achieve its objectives and
meet its user needs.
The core strategy informs what the content will be and how it will be
structured:
• Substance: What kinds of content do we need (topics, types,
sources, etc.)? What messages does content need to communicate to
our audience?
• Structure: How is content prioritized, organized, formatted, and
displayed? (Structure can include IA, metadata, data modeling,
linking strategies, etc.)
The core content strategy also informs how people (specifically content
owners and overseers) will help drive the content lifecycle:
• Workflow: What processes, tools, and human resources are
required for content initiatives to launch successfully and maintain
ongoing quality?
• Governance: How are key decisions about content and content
strategy made? How are changes initiated and communicated?
One breakthrough people often have when looking at the quad for the
first time is realizing how important it is to address the people
components as well as the content components. The relationship between
substance and structure is fairly implicit: when you add content to a

-- 41 of 193 --

website, for example, the structure of that website might change. But
what about how that new content will impact workflow? Does anyone
need to review changes before they can go live? What happens if the
content goes live and it’s incorrect? Who’s responsible for maintaining
the new content? You get the point: Content strategy connects real
content to real people. That connection is key to getting your content
right.
Who does Content Strategy?
The easy answer is, “lots of people.” And they do! Many people are
practicing some type of content strategy in their current role ... probably
even you. But for now, let’s look at the roles and responsibilities of a
fully dedicated content strategist.
The content strategist is the person who is responsible for your content—
for one project or your entire content landscape. This person:
• Is the advocate for the content throughout the team and organization
• Provides the background research and analysis that stakeholders
need to make smart decisions about content
• Creates recommendations for the content based on business and
user needs
• Works with the organization to implement the content online
Ideally, especially on large or complex projects, the content strategist
solicits and synthesizes input from a variety of people, including web
writers and editors, information architects, SEO practitioners, database
managers, and subject matter experts. When needed, however, a good
content strategist is often willing and able to embrace whatever role is
necessary to deliver on the promise of useful, usable content.
What Exactly does a Content Strategist do?
What follows is a sample job description for a content strategist. Of
course, depending on the structure and needs of your particular
organization, roles and responsibilities will vary.
The content strategist is responsible for overseeing the success of content
initiatives.
Collaborating closely with other key project stakeholders, the content
strategist is critical to defining the content needs of websites and
applications.
For each project, the content strategist will:

-- 42 of 193 --

• Gather, audit, and analyze existing content relevant to project
requirements.
• Collaborate with project leads to examine and analyze the content
“ecosystem”—internal and external factors that impact the content
—during the project discovery phase.
• Determine projects’ overall content requirements and potential
content sources.
• Ensure that the team aligns on content objectives, assumptions,
risks, and success factors.
• Develop content strategy and plans based on client business
objectives and user needs.
• Coordinate and collaborate with a team of experts in IA, SEO,
social media, database management, metadata, and anyone else who
is assigned ownership of an online initiative.
• Work with the web editor or web writer to oversee the development
of all content to be included in the solution.
• Create taxonomies and metadata frameworks for grouping and
tagging content.
• Develop content indexes and mapping documentation for the site.
• Understand and help implement content accessibility standards
according to national law and organizational policy.
• Shepherd content through the creation process.
• Oversee content migrations and prepare documentation to do so.
• Work with database administrators to make necessary changes and
updates.
• Ensure there is a plan for maintaining and governing content post-
launch.
How is Content Strategy Different from Other Disciplines?
Well ... it might not be.
A content strategist’s work isn’t necessarily separate or apart from user
experience, technical, or communications professionals. In fact, you
might say the content strategist can work within, between, or inclusive of
any of these disciplines, which may include:
Messaging and branding

-- 43 of 193 --

Messaging and branding professionals specialize in defining what the
“story” is behind the content. They answer questions such as: What are
your brand values and attributes, and how will they inform the content?
What do you want the user to learn or know or believe after reading your
content? Do we say different things to different users? Do we talk to the
same user differently depending on his current task or length of
relationship with the organization?
Case Study: Becoming a Content Strategist
In 2010, Shelly Wilson worked as the head of editorial in Northern Ireland’s national
education body’s multimedia team, overseeing the content in the organization’s print, web,
and A/V materials. Deciding she was ready for a change, she applied for a position as a
“content editor” at a web strategy and design studio called Front, located in Belfast. That’s
where she first encountered the concept of content strategy. With 15 years of experience in
writing, editing, and marketing, both for print and for the Web, she thought it would be a
fairly simple transition.
Though Shelly’s skills and experience made her the perfect candidate for the job, she
quickly realized there was a new skill she’d need to master as a content strategist:
persuasion. Of course she had always persuaded authors to make changes, but she
discovered that consultants use persuasion differently with clients. Many clients genuinely
don’t understand content, and that made it difficult for her to do her job. So rather than
being a gatekeeper for quality and accuracy, she was now an ambassador, reaching out to
clients and stakeholders to advocate for content. She learned how important it was to
deconstruct, document, and articulate her rationale for each suggestion. She also began to
invest a lot more time in showing rather than telling. She continues to hone her consulting
skills to better deliver the strategic recommendations she was hired to create.
It’s always tough to shift careers, and Shelly is still adjusting. “I’m not entirely
comfortable yet, but I think you just have to get comfortable with being uncomfortable.”
And what’s the upside? “Content strategy is more collaborative. The benefit is the
additional perspectives. Working with so many people brings to light things you hadn’t
considered.” And there’s no greater thrill than getting all those people excited about good
content.
Web writing
Web writing is the practice of writing useful, usable content specifically
intended for delivery online. This is a whole lot more than smart
copywriting. An effective web writer must understand the basics of user
experience (UX) design, be able to translate information architecture
documentation, write effective metadata, and manage an ever-changing
content inventory.
Information architecture
Information architecture involves the design of organization and
navigation systems to help people find and manage information more
successfully. An information architect who also focuses deeply on the

-- 44 of 193 --

content substance will define the content requirements for pages or
content components of a website. This includes structural issues,
messaging hierarchy, source content, maintenance requirements, and so
forth.
Search engine optimization
Search engine optimization is the process of creating, editing,
organizing, and delivering content (including metadata) to increase its
potential relevance to specific keywords on web and site search engines.
Metadata strategy
Metadata strategy identifies the type and structure of metadata, also
known as the “data about data” (or content). Smart, well-structured
metadata helps publishers to identify, organize, use, and reuse content in
ways that are meaningful to key audiences.
Content management strategy
Content management strategy defines the technologies needed to
capture, store, deliver, and preserve an organization’s content. Publishing
infrastructures, content life cycles, and workflows are key considerations
of this strategy.
Call it What you Want ... Just Get it Done
It’s utterly pointless to try and say, “This person isn’t a real content
strategist because she only does a subset of the activities that fall under
the content strategy umbrella.” Sure, there are content strategy
generalists—professionals who can inform and perform the activities that
affect every phase of the content lifecycle. But there are also
professionals whose expertise runs deep in one specific area of content
strategy, or whose work has direct impact on how a content strategy is
created or executed.
Ultimately, the important thing is simply that someone is paying close
attention to the critical questions that will make or break your content:
why, what, where, for whom, by whom, when, how much, and what’s
next. It doesn’t matter what you call it or who does it ... as long as the
work gets done!
So, Now What?
Now comes the fun part.

-- 45 of 193 --

The next six chapters will help you understand in depth how content
strategy works. We’ll talk about preparing for strategy, creating your
strategy, and putting together your action plans for world domination
through content. Which is totally possible.
Let’s go!

-- 46 of 193 --

Discovery
Whether you know it or not, your current “world of content” extends far
beyond what’s on your website. It’s made up of all the people, places and
things that affect the way your content comes and goes. Let’s go
exploring...

-- 47 of 193 --

4. Alignment
BECAUSE CONTENT TOUCHES just about every area of an organization,
strategies only work when everyone is aligned and on the same page.
Alignment starts in the discovery process and continues, well, forever. At
the beginning of the content strategy process, alignment is about
providing your stakeholders with baseline information about the content,
each other, and the strategy process. Then, for the rest of time, it means
keeping people up to date, asking for input, and responding to questions.
(Yes. Seriously. Forever.)
C’mon, People Now
Alignment isn’t necessarily about creating consensus. It’s about creating
a common understanding. But how on earth are you supposed to
accomplish that? In this chapter, you’ll learn how to:
• Identify your stakeholders.
• Convince them to participate.
• Set the stage for alignment with a kickoff.
• Get them engaged.
• Keep them motivated throughout the project.
Why is Alignment So Important?
We’ve found that we can often predict how successful a content strategy
will be within the first few weeks. How? We look at how receptive the
project sponsors are to collaborating with others. It’s our experience that
people who are open to input and opinions succeed far more often than
those who try to keep their projects under wraps.
Content strategy requires outreach and alignment. Why? Two
reasons.
Lots of people affect your content
People throughout your organization are involved in content processes.
The marketing and branding teams might be obvious players, but legal
reviewers, subject matter experts, technologists, and many others have
roles to play. Acknowledging and understanding their ideas, issues, and
opinions will help you create a more informed, effective strategy.

-- 48 of 193 --

Your content strategy affects lots of people
When you introduce a new content strategy, you’re asking all of those
people to change their habits, opinions, and accountabilities. That’s a tall
order. You’ll need more than a fancy PowerPoint™ presentation to
change people’s behavior—you’ll need their trust.
You’ll need to help them understand the big picture. Ask for input and
respond to questions. Show them where they can contribute and how
they will benefit. The earlier you start, the better. So, hey, let’s get
started!
First, Identify your Stakeholders
When we talk about “stakeholders,” we simply mean “people who matter
to your project.” Stakeholders can make or break your strategy project—
so it’s important to think carefully about who is necessary to the health
of your content.
Types of Stakeholders
When people think about picking stakeholders, they often try to get
representatives from each of the departments in the organization. That’s
a good way to start. Having the right departmental representation is
important.
However, as you create your list, you may want to think about functional
categories, as well:
• Strategic decision makers are people who will be most impacted
by your strategy and, therefore, deserve to have a significant amount
of impact and input during the process.
• Money people are the folks that are funding your project. Maybe
it’s your boss, and your boss’s boss. They are likely the ultimate
decision makers on everything you do.
• Champions are people who will advocate for your project
regardless of their relationship to the content. They see the value of
content strategy and go out of their way to get others interested and
invested.
• Showstoppers are individuals who have no “official” power, but
could stop the project in its tracks (the CEO’s henchman, for
example). This category includes people who are politically
necessary. You have to invite them, because they’ll turn into
showstoppers if they’re not involved.

-- 49 of 193 --

• Interested others are people who have tangential interests in your
project. Maybe they have a very limited or indirect relationship to
the content. Or, maybe they’re considering a similar project of their
own.
Considering these categories will make it easier for you to decide who
needs to be involved, when, and in what capacity. Do they need to come
to every meeting or just the big ones? Do you need to interview someone
personally, or can you just send him a questionnaire?
Categories like this are certainly not a caste system. People can move
from one to another, and sometimes be in two categories at once. But,
identifying your stakeholders by how they impact the project and
not by their areas of expertise will help you understand how to
involve them going forward.
Your Day-to-Day Players
The people in the “strategic decision maker” category often make up
your core team. They come to all the meetings. They come up with the
lion’s share of ideas. And, they are the most important people to keep
aligned. (The money people can be part of the core team, too, depending
on their accessibility and interest.)
Of course, it’s important to limit the core team to a reasonable size. What
that size is depends on your situation. But, if you have a “core team” of
25 people, it’ll be hard to get anything done. If you’ve got a big number
of strategic decision makers, you’ll have to decide who is most critical to
have on the core team and who has the time to participate. Or, you can
create several task forces that can work on different aspects of the project
simultaneously.
Just be sure no one is excluded from the process altogether. Even the
“interested others” should still be respectfully involved—whether you
invite them to the biggest meetings or simply send them a quarterly
email update.
No Elitism, Please
It’s tempting to just invite managers to represent their teams. But, in
reality, the managers don’t always know how things work in the content
trenches. Be sure to include people who really know what’s up, even if
they’re interns. A combination of people from all levels of the
organizational hierarchy works best.

-- 50 of 193 --

Then, Get them Interested
People are busy. They might not want to add anything else to their
already triple-booked schedule. If you have key stakeholders you want to
support or participate in your content initiatives, you may have to work
at it.
You need to tell a compelling story (you’re a content-savvy person, after
all). Create a nice story arc, and present your case with the following
elements:
• The problem or opportunity: What’s going on with content—
complete with some persuasive facts from the research or some
particularly convincing examples on how content affects the
stakeholder’s bottom line or area of responsibility.
• The urgency: Why it’s urgent to work on the content problem right
now. (Competitive advantage? User needs? Business opportunity?)
• The request for help: Why you think they would be an asset to the
team; what unique views they can provide. Make sure you tell them
how much you respect their time, and outline your expectations for
participation.
• The players: A description of who is participating (direct them to
some of your project champions, if you’ve identified them already).
• The payoff: The benefits to them and the organization as a whole.
Most people like to be helpful and will agree to participate at some level.
If someone important turns you down, respectfully ask them why.
Resistance is often about lack of clarity, so you may be able to change
their minds if you clear things up. If they still say “no,” ask if they’d like
occasional updates about content projects. Keeping them involved at any
level is a win for you, if only a small one.
Kick Off on the Right Foot
Usually, there is a formal kickoff meeting at the beginning of any content
strategy project. This is where all the agreed-upon stakeholders come
together for the first time. We often wait to host that bonanza until we
have some research and analysis (see Chapter 5, Audit, and Chapter 6,
Analysis) under our belts. That way, we can use early findings to put the
project in context and ask the stakeholder group to fill in any analysis
gaps. So, from the beginning, people are learning and contributing—
getting the information exchange off to a good start.

-- 51 of 193 --

As you’re working toward early alignment, here’s what should happen in
the kickoff meeting.
Explain Why you’re There and What you’ve Done So Far
If you want to get people on board, you need to be sure they feel
included in the conversation. Using lots of industry lingo and failing to
tell them what to expect will burn you every time. You’ll need to:
• Explain what content strategy is
• Reiterate how content strategy will benefit the organization and the
stakeholders
And, if you’ve already completed any audit or analysis work, you can
discuss:
• What content exists today and what shape it’s in (your audit
findings)
• What the internal and external factors are that impact your content
—highlighting user research, competitive research, and the content
workflow process
Help Everyone Get to Know Each Other and their Roles
Probably the most important part of alignment in the discovery phase is
to help stakeholders learn about each other. In large organizations, it’s
not uncommon for people to meet each other for the first time on a
content project. Even in small companies, people may see each other in a
new light. Helping people understand and engage with one another is a
huge part of the job.
Set Clear Expectations for what Comes Next (And for Whom)
Lastly, you need to set the stage for the rest of the work. People will
want to know:
• What is their role in the process?
• How much and how often will you need them to participate?
• What kinds of things will they be doing?
• Who are the decision makers and what is the decision making
process?
• What are the immediate next steps?
The more they know, the more they’ll feel some ownership in your
content projects from day one. Remember, your stakeholders are your

-- 52 of 193 --

allies—or, if they’re not initially, it’s your job to find that common
ground. You want them to trust you so they’ll share the stuff that matters.
Engagement doesn’t Stop after the Kickoff
At the beginning of a project, alignment is a major focus. But, it’s
important to make sure you keep the momentum going. How and when
you solicit stakeholder input during the remainder of the project is
unique to your situation. But no matter what happens:
• Communicate and encourage participation: Schedule regular
meetings, host workshops, send regular updates, have Q&A
sessions, etc. Be consistent as clockwork—it’s another way to
inspire trust.
• Listen and respond: Always take the stakeholders seriously.
Respond to their ideas and insights in a respectful, timely way.
• Distribute documentation: Make sure people always have
documentation in hand—so they can follow along in meetings and
have reference materials whenever they want to refresh their
memories.
• Celebrate milestones: Highlight milestones and other progress. Be
sure everyone knows how he or she contributed in positive ways.
• Set expectations: Make sure people always know where they stand.
What is their role in the project? What do they have to do next?
Alignment is a never-ending, but highly rewarding, process. Just think of
the smart people in your stakeholder group. When you harness all that
brainpower, you’re bound to meet—and exceed—your business and user
goals.
Go, Team, Go
Alignment is a huge first step as you head into your discovery phase.
Once you’ve rallied the players, you’re ready to tackle your content
together.
In the next two chapters, we’ll dig deep into your content (audits) and
examine the world in which it lives (analysis).
Are we aligned on this plan? Terrific. Onward.

-- 53 of 193 --

5. Audit
SOMETIMES, WE’LL ASK a conference audience, “How many of you know
exactly what you have on your website, where it lives, and who owns
it?”
Inevitably, even in rooms of several hundred people, only one or two
people raise their hands.
This, friends, is a problem. To make even the most basic decisions about
your content—like deciding where to focus your resources and budget—
it’s good to know how much content you have, where it lives, what it’s
about, and whether it’s any good.
And to know these things, you need to do a content audit.
Seeing is Believing
A web content audit is an accounting of the content your organization
currently has online. More often than not, when you’re finished (or even
midstream), the results are unbelievably valuable. As we said in the first
chapter, an audit can be one of your most powerful tools when making a
business case for any web content project.
When you finish this chapter, you’ll understand:
• Why audits are important
• What kinds of audits are most common
• How to record your audit findings
• How much content you need to evaluate
• How to share your results
Let’s get to it.
Thinking about Skipping this Chapter? Don’t
“We know the basic gist of what’s on our site.” “Somebody else in our
organization must have done this before.” “I hate spreadsheets and don’t
want to waste my valuable time on this.”
Here’s the deal. No matter how unnecessary or unpleasant an audit may
look to you, don’t skip it. This process isn’t just about building up a nice
spreadsheet of URLs and page titles. Audits can:
• Help you scope and budget for a content project

-- 54 of 193 --

• Give you a clear understanding of what you have and where it lives,
even if only to begin thinking about maintenance or content removal
• Serve as a reference for source (or existing) content during content
development, making it a highly efficient tool for writers and other
content creators to keep track of what they have to work with
Can’t Robots do this for Me?
At this point you may be thinking, “An audit sounds awfully time-
consuming. Surely there are widgets that can audit my website
automagically!”
The answer is yes—there are “audit tools” that can crawl sites and
capture basic information, such as titles and links. Some CMSes have
audit-like features, too. During the audit process, this kind of technology
can be extremely helpful and, in some cases, necessary. But beware.
Technology doesn’t replace the context provided by human review. If
you really want an in-depth understanding of your content—substance,
quality, accuracy—people power is the best way to go.
Case Study: The Value of an Audit—Saving Time, Saving Money
Carrie Hane Dennison works for a full-service web development firm called Balance
Interactive in Springfield, Virginia. She says that her clients are starting to realize they
need content strategy, even if they don’t know what it is.
Although clients aren’t always looking for a line item called “strategy,” Carrie finds ways
to address content strategy. She prefers to do so early in a site redesign, but sometimes
works with clients after content requirements are already in place. At either stage, using an
inventory is one way Carrie helps her clients understand and address strategy. She explains
to clients that, for every 5 hours they spend auditing near to the beginning of a project,
they might save 20 hours at a later stage, preventing project delays.
After conducting an inventory of existing and needed content, Carrie asks her clients to
spend time thinking about messaging, or considering the number of hours needed to
complete the writing or content migration. She recalls one client who took one look at the
inventory and said, “There’s no way I can get this all done.” Rather than setting up her
own staff to fail, the client hired Carrie’s team to help migrate the content. The result was
an on-time launch of the new website, rather than a month late.
That’s really the point of an audit: You can anticipate problems before they arise, and
avoid derailing your project. All of that time and money may seem daunting at the
beginning, but Carrie’s clients are impressed when the investment means they’re able to
launch a better site, on schedule.
Technology can help you get:
• Quick wins: When you have a very limited timeframe to build a
business case or to prepare for an upcoming web project, technology
can help. For example, if you want to understand the total volume of

-- 55 of 193 --

content on a website, an audit tool can give you a ballpark estimate
in a hurry.
• A head start: Auto-audit tools can save you tons of time by
creating a complete list of all of your content, as well as some basic
info about each content piece. Additionally, in sites without
traditional navigation, CMS-driven tools may be the only way to get
a complete list without going totally insane.
• Neutral data: In organizations large and small, content discussions
can get political. In this case, technologically generated, raw,
undisputed data about your content can be your best friend.
Even with all of the technical shortcuts available, many content
strategists prefer to do audits by hand. There is simply no better way to
fully comprehend all of your existing content.
Common Types of Audits: Choose Your Own Adventure
Here’s the single, most important thing you need to know about audits:
The kind of audit you do depends on what you want to learn. There
is no one perfect format, size, or timing for an audit; there are many
different (and totally valid) ways to audit your content. What you pick
depends on your goals.
Here are a few of the most common content audits.
Which Audit is Right for you?
There’s no hard and fast rule, here. You can choose to do one of these
audits, all three, or create your own audit format. No matter what you
choose, doing a thorough audit will give you priceless information about
your content.

-- 56 of 193 --

Start by setting clear goals for your audit. These will help you determine
which audit(s) you choose and what information they capture. Think
about:
• What you want to learn (and why)
• What you need to prove (and to whom)
• How long you have to get the audit done (be realistic)
• Where you are in the content strategy process (if you’re not sure,
see the next five chapters ...)
Let’s take a closer look at each of the audit types.
Quantitative Inventory: Just the Facts
The goal of a quantitative inventory is to learn what you have, where it
lives, and a few other basic stats. No frills. Just objective facts.
A quantitative inventory is the quickest and easiest way to get some
insight into your content at the beginning of a project. BUT. By simply
cataloging the number of pages, downloadable PDFs, dynamic content
modules, video clips, and other “live” web content for which your
organization is responsible, you can wake up stakeholders to the
magnitude of your content—and the budget you need to
create/maintain/fix it. Cha-ching.
What to record
Here’s a list of the most common bits of data recorded in quantitative
inventories. Title/Topics is a must-have. The other factors you choose
depend on—you guessed it—your audit goals:
• ID: Assign an identification number or code to each piece of
content. (See page 57 for more information.)
• Title/Topics: For a web page, this is likely the title of the page. For
a content module, you may choose to use the heading or subhead. If
there is no title of the content piece or page, include a short
description of the key topics or themes covered.
• URL: Record only where applicable.
• Format: Make a note of the technical format of the content, such as
text, video, PDF, etc.
• Source: Specify whether the content is created in-house, by a
content partner (newsfeeds, articles, blog posts, and so on), or by
your users. Note: For content created by your internal team, if you
can, note who creates, approves, and publishes each piece of

-- 57 of 193 --

content. This information can be enormously helpful when you
begin to ask questions about why certain content was done a certain
way, or when you want to confirm it’s okay to change or remove the
content. We’ll examine this topic in detail in Chapter 9, People.
• Technical home: If you’re dealing with a very large site that’s
hosted on a number of different servers or platforms, take note of
where the content lives within your technical infrastructure. For
example, is the content in a content management system (CMS),
inventory system, or fed to the site via an API? Sometimes content
may be stored in very strange places, so be prepared to do some
digging.
• Metadata: Metadata is “data about data.” In this case, we’re talking
about attributes (such as keywords and tags) assigned to each piece
of content. These valuable data nuggets help people find content on
search engines, on your site, and in your CMS. When planning
findable, functional content during the strategy phase, you’ll need to
know what metadata exists. If you don’t know where to find your
metadata, your friendly IT colleague, web developer, or SEO
consultant should be able to help.
• Traffic/usage statistics: There are analytics available for almost
any kind of online content. If it’s feasible, get the skinny on how
people are using (or not using) each piece of content. An internal
analytics person or a representative from your analytics provider can
often help you get the information you need.
• Last update: When was the last time somebody in your
organization paid attention to this piece of content? Most CMS
systems record a “last update” date—and that information can give
you hints about the significance of the content, the content
workflow, and more. Just don’t make any drastic assumptions—
keep it in context.
• Language: If you have content in multiple languages, you’ll want
to record the language or dialect used on each piece of content.
Note: robots welcome here
While it’s always helpful to review your content personally, quantitative
inventories are where the robots really shine. Because quantitative
inventories are about collecting raw data (no human judgment required),
the right technical tools can save you time and energy.
Qualitative Assessments: Deeper Dives

-- 58 of 193 --

Seeing what content you have and where it lives is helpful, but only to a
point.
Many a site map has been constructed based solely on page titles. But
when it comes to qualifying the usefulness of content, a page title
doesn’t tell you what the content actually says, or if it’s useful to your
audience. That’s where a qualitative audit comes in.
A qualitative audit analyzes the quality and effectiveness of the content.
The key distinction between quantitative inventories and qualitative
audits is human judgment. Qualitative audits are a robot-free zone. An
actual human being has to look at each piece of content and evaluate it
based on defined characteristics.
In our chart on page 50, we listed two kinds of qualitative audits. Both
take the quantitative inventory and go a few steps further:
• Best practices assessment: Usually done early in the project, a best
practices assessment looks at your content from an outsider’s point
of view. It measures your content against best practices and user
needs. It helps you understand if your content is useful, usable,
enjoyable, and persuasive to your audience—or what you need to do
to make it so.
• Strategic assessment: A strategic assessment is the most full-
featured of all audits. Once you have a strategy in place, a strategic
assessment gives you an idea of how your existing content aligns
with it. Where are the gaps? What needs to change? What’s terrific
as it is? A strategic assessment can combine factors from a best
practices assessment with strategy-specific criteria. Note that this is
often informed by analysis and recommendations—we talk about a
lot of this in the next chapter.
Sample qualitative audit factors
In addition to the information gathered in a quantitative audit, there are
dozens (if not hundreds) of possible subjective factors you can review
during a qualitative audit. We generally choose 5–6 factors based on the
situation. The table on page 55 shows a few of our favorites.
Create your own factors
As we mentioned, the table only includes a few sample audit factors.
Feel free to be creative and think of your own. Just be sure you can:
• Evaluate the factor by looking at individual pieces of content (not
groups or categories of content)

-- 59 of 193 --

• Use the factor to assess most or all of the content (i.e., not just one
type of content)
• Develop clear, specific guidelines for measurement (including
ratings or categories)
The More (Auditors) the Merrier
If you’re auditing 1,500 pieces of content, one person can handle it. (Yes,
really!) But if you’re looking at 10,000 pieces, you’re going to want
some help.
When you share audit responsibilities, it’s absolutely imperative that
your audit criteria, ratings, etc., are crystal clear. In addition to defining
and communicating the criteria, you may want to:
• Have one person test the audit criteria before splitting up the work
• Create some examples of each criterion or rating
• Have regular check-ins with the audit team and spot-check each
other’s work
• Make sure that in addition to ratings and pre-defined lists, auditors
have a notes field to jot down anything out of the ordinary or
explain their thinking
When it’s all over, you can commiserate about the agony of audit eyeball
(where you can no longer look at the screen without seeing double).
QUALITATIVE AUDIT FACTORS

-- 60 of 193 --

Audit Spreadsheets: Choose your Weapon
Back in the old days (like, 2005), auditing was so easy. Web content =
website pages. The format of audit findings was always the same: a
simple list of pages, ordered by navigation, in a spreadsheet.
Today, getting a handle on your content can be more complex. Content
isn’t necessarily assigned to a single page on a website anymore—in
fact, it might not be on a website at all. Even if it is, it might be displayed
differently depending on the user’s behavior, preferences, or device
(computer, phone, tablet, etc.).
Spreadsheets are still the go-to format for most audits, but the tools are
evolving to accommodate new kinds of content. Let’s take a look at a
few of the more popular options and how they work.
The Basic Spreadsheet: Old Faithful
If you have a traditional website—where content is assigned to a specific
page within a fixed navigation scheme (usually a home page with lots of
neatly organized pages underneath)—a basic spreadsheet is the tool for
you. Here’s an example of a basic spreadsheet for a fake plant nursery
website:

-- 61 of 193 --

To audit your site, you simply click through every page of your site
(usually in order) and record the information in an outline format. List
major website sections as your top-level “parent” (or primary) sections.
Then plug in pages and modules as “children” (or secondary, tertiary,
and so on) sections or pages in each main section. Most of the time, the
pages are numbered the same way you’d organize a document outline
(1.0, 1.1, 1.1.1, and so on).
A note about ID numbers
If you don’t already have a numbering system for your web content, it’s
a good idea to start one during the audit process. By assigning a unique
ID to each page or component, you have an easy way to reference each
piece of content, categorize content for analysis, and get an
understanding of how pieces of content relate to each other. Lastly, a
number system will help you link your audit findings to other web
project documentation—the number of a specific piece of content can
correspond to the content strategy recommendations for that content, etc.
Spreadsheet 2.0: When Content Flexes and Changes
As we mentioned above, today’s smarty-pants programmers have made it
possible to customize website content based on who you are, your past

-- 62 of 193 --

behavior, or the device you’re using. (For example, people viewing a
page on a mobile phone may only see half of the content available on a
computer.)
When your site has these bells and whistles, variations need to be
included in your audit. If your site has a set structure (where the
navigation is basically the same for everybody), you’re in luck. You can
still do the inventory in an outline manner with some small adjustments.
Start by choosing one version of the content to be the root of your
inventory (the primary user group, the most common device, etc.) Then
amend your ID system and spreadsheet to indicate variations.
Back to our nursery example. Let’s say the nursery website has two
audiences: the general public and professional landscapers. People who
are logged in as professionals get expanded or different information. In
this (very simple) example, we’ve added “:g” to the end of the ID
numbers of pages targeted to the general public, and “:p” for versions of
the pages for professionals.
In these types of audits, consistency is key. Regardless of the numbering
system you select, make sure it’s used correctly throughout the audit.
Indexed Inventory: When Things Get Really Hairy
Now come the sites, apps, and content channels that are so incredibly
flexible it seems like there is no navigation at all. Or, there really isn’t
any navigation. Just tags. Or facets. Or something.
Whatever the situation, the content in question cannot be audited in an
outline format. You can still use a spreadsheet for your audits, but you
likely need to:

-- 63 of 193 --

• Get a list of content pieces from the backend. It’s really hard to get a
complete list of content pieces by clicking around. So, if you’re
unfamiliar with the backend system, it’s time to make friends with
an IT or CMS-focused colleague.
• Document (or find the documented) user characteristics or
behaviors that cause the system to display each piece of content.
Again, the backend people probably have this all worked out on a
fancy model somewhere.
• Categorize the content into groups for analysis such as topic,
product type, audience segment, or internal content owner. Create a
meaningful numbering/indexing system based on your
categorization. (If the CMS does this for you, too, hooray! But,
often the CMS numbering system is too abstract for the purposes of
an audit analysis. Boo.)
Our nursery audit might look like this:
Now this is a simple example; things often get significantly more
complicated. Indexing systems get tricky, and, in some cases, it’s easier
to create an audit database instead of a spreadsheet. Make the choice
based on your audit goals, the people working on the audit, and the size
of the mess you might be in.
Do you Really Need to Look at All of the Content?
It depends. If you have less than 5,000 pages/pieces of content, you
should probably look at all of it. Yep. All of it. Why? Because you can:
it’s humanly possible to do so.

-- 64 of 193 --

But what happens if you have 25,000, 100,000, or 100,000,000 pieces of
content? Or, you don’t have enough time to review 5,000 pages? When
looking at every page is not an option, you have two choices: content
sampling or rolling audits.
Content Sampling
One way to audit huge piles of content is to review a “representative
sample” of your content.
Choosing your sample
The challenge with creating a sample is deciding what content should be
included. Sure, you could just do a randomly generated selection of
content items, but usually it’s better to make your sample more
intentional by basing it on what you want to learn.
Brain Traffic’s Christine Anameier suggests considering the following
criteria when selecting your audit:
• Content objectives: If 70% of the site content is designed to
increase sales and 25% is dedicated to customer support, your
sample set can reflect those percentages. The remaining 5% (such as
job postings or corporate philanthropy information) can be sampled
lightly or not at all.
• User groups: Divide sample content by user group—ensuring
content for each of your major user segments is represented. Better
yet, prioritize the user groups and sample more pages for the highest
priority users.
• Traffic: Site analytics can show you which pages or sections get the
most visits and which get the least. Depending on your business
goals, you may choose to focus on the high-traffic content, low-
traffic content, or a combination of all traffic levels.
• Content ownership: It may not be possible to include work from
all teams of content contributors, but it’s helpful to get a good mix
from people that regularly create your content. If the sample consists
mostly of one group’s work, it may not reflect the content as a
whole and other teams may not embrace the audit findings.
• Update or maintenance frequency: Some content is maintained
lovingly. Other content is left to go stale. If either of these two
scenarios is over-represented in your sample, the results of the audit
will be skewed—creating a false sense of pride or doom.

-- 65 of 193 --

• Depth: It’s tempting to audit only top-level pages of a website, but
with today’s search tools, customers may never even see your top-
level pages. The “deeper” content is often where your customers run
into major problems. In his book, Killer Web Content, Gerry
McGovern writes, “I come across many websites where there is a
well-designed top level with quality content. However, when you
click down a few levels, everything changes—it’s like walking out
of a plush hotel straight into a rubbish dump.” So you may want to
look at a cross-section from all content levels.
When choosing your sample, how much content is enough?
There’s no rule or benchmark for picking the perfect sample size. It
would seem like the more content you could review, the better off you’d
be. That’s somewhat true, but mostly you just have to look at enough
content to see patterns emerge, answer your questions, or reduce
uncertainty.
On a relatively small site (i.e., 10,000 pieces of content), you might need
to look at half of the content before the patterns become obvious. For a
million-page site, you might decide to look at only 0.01% of the content.
That’s still 10,000 pages ... so you’re not exactly off the hook. But, you
should begin to recognize some kind of valuable patterns. You won’t
have the same level of certainty about your findings as you did with the
smaller site audit, but you’ll have some ideas. And you probably aren’t
going to learn anything else by auditing another 1,000 or 10,000 items—
comparatively, the percentage of items reviewed is still so low that the
change in the margin of error is microscopic.
Here’s a rough table of suggested sample sizes (based on common
market research sampling practices):

-- 66 of 193 --

If you can’t make these benchmarks or just want to ignore them, don’t
sweat it. Adjust the sample size to your resources and time. Just about
any sample will tell you something as long as you (and the people you
show your results to) understand what content you reviewed and why.
Rolling Audits
Another effective way to audit large sites is a rolling audit—an audit that
basically never ends. Lou Rosenfeld (Rosenfeld Media) says an audit or
inventory “shouldn’t be something that you allocate the first two weeks
of your redesign to; allocate 10 or 15 percent of your job to it instead.”
It works like this: In January, you audit one area of a website. In
February, you audit a different area. In March, you move onto a third,
and so on. Eventually, when all of the content of the site is audited, you
start over with the first category again. (It doesn’t have to be monthly,
either.)
The benefit of a rolling audit is that more content gets looked at, in a
more careful manner, more often. This works best when stakeholders can
agree to focus the first phases of the audit—and the content strategy—on
a few discrete areas of the site.
And, guess what? On a super huge site, you can do a rolling sample of
each area of the site instead of a rolling audit. It’s like a dream come
true, really.
Tabulate Your the Results
When you’ve finished evaluating all of your content, stop and celebrate.
Just bask in the glory of that completed spreadsheet. Have a cupcake!
Take a nap!
Okay, that was fun. Back to work.
By this time, the audit team likely has a good idea of where your content
shines and flounders. But, there’s nothing like cold, hard numbers to
drive home the point. So, take the time to tabulate the results and look
for patterns. You’ll be able to answer questions like:
• How much content do we have, exactly? Do we have more in some
categories than we would have expected?
• Which areas of content score especially high or especially low on
any specific factor?
• Do we have a disproportionate amount of content for one audience
segment?

-- 67 of 193 --

• How much of our content is out of date or inaccurate?
When you crunch the numbers, you often find some pretty insightful
stuff.
Share Your Findings
At this point, you may be totally enamored with your spreadsheet and
raw data—we are, too—but chances are your business stakeholders
won’t share your devotion.
For them, you’ll need an audit report. Prepare the report in whatever
format suits your audience: it can be a presentation or a full-scale
document. You just need to convey the results of the audit and provide a
reference for future discussions.
An audit report usually has three parts: an overview of the audit process,
a path to access the raw data, and the findings report.
Overview of the Process
First, your report should provide a brief description of the audit process.
This will help make your findings more understandable and believable.
You might want to include:
• Goals of the audit: Why you did the audit, what you hoped to
learn, and what you want to do with the results.
• Audit factors and measurement criteria: A brief overview of
what was measured and how.
• Scope: What areas of content were audited and why. If the content
is particularly time-sensitive, you may need to include a date range
as well.
Path to Raw Data
Some people who see your audit report are going to want to see the data.
If you so choose, you can provide them with a link to the spreadsheet.
But, don’t just let them loose with it. Provide a spreadsheet guide that
explains how the spreadsheet works and alleviates any confusion.
Findings Report
Third, and most importantly, you’ll want to provide your audit findings.
Your findings can include:
• A summary of overall conclusions and recommendations
• A description of each audit factor

-- 68 of 193 --

• Data summaries per factor
• Factor-based themes or suggestions (with examples, when possible)
The report you create depends on the people who will see it. How much
do they need to know? How much do they want to know? You may have
different reports for different groups of people for the same audit. Here
are some examples of what you might see in an audit report.
Formal detailed report
In this example, the auditor pulls out all the stops. This is a formal report
made for an audience that craves details. In this example, the audit
examined types of content formats used throughout the site. On this page
of the report, you have:
1. A description of the audit factor
2. Graphic depiction of the results
3. Data cross-referencing site section and format
4. Key findings and analysis about the factor

-- 69 of 193 --

Casual summary report
This report is more casual—possibly directed at a core team who is
familiar with the audit and the content. It doesn’t go into the details, but
gets the high-level messages across. This page includes:
1. Summary of the key finding for this factor
2. A bit of detail that clarifies problem areas

-- 70 of 193 --

Presentation-style report
This slide is from a presentation that might summarize a report or may
be the report itself. The slide headline summarizes the key finding, and
the image provides some data for backup.

-- 71 of 193 --

It’s very likely that conducting an audit will earn you a huge promotion,
a ton more money, and a year’s vacation. Well, that might be a bit
optimistic. At the very least, it will get people’s attention. And once you
have people’s attention, you have the opportunity to present a business
case for your next project or initiative.
But Wait, there’s More
With a completed audit under your belt, you should have a clear
understanding of the content you have. It’s likely you have lots of ideas
about what to do next. Why not jump right in?
Hold on there, chief.
There’s more juicy info to be had about user needs, competitors, and the
content team within your organization.
Next stop? Analysis.

-- 72 of 193 --

6. Analysis
CONTENT DOESN’T EXIST IN A VACUUM. There are forces—both from within
your organization and from the outside world—that shape what your
content is and what it could be. Business goals, resource constraints, user
needs, and competitor activities are just a few things that influence your
content in a big, big way.
To make effective recommendations about content, you need to analyze
the wild, wide world in which your content lives. So, before jumping
into strategy, take the time to ask pertinent, important questions about all
the factors that impact your content’s creation, maintenance, and ongoing
success.
In this chapter, we’ll discuss different aspects of ecosystem analysis, and
why they’re essential to your content strategy efforts:
• Internal impact factors: How does your organization impact your
content?
• External impact factors: What effects do users, competitors, and
influencers have?
• Communicating the results: How do you document and share
what you’ve learned?
Please note that just because internal impact factors come first in this
chapter doesn’t mean you need to do them first. Want to start with
external impact factors? Need to do external and internal
simultaneously? Go right ahead. The choice is yours.
No Time or Budget for Analysis? Find It
When you’re constantly being asked to deliver projects in less time with
fewer resources and smaller budgets, how can you possibly slow down
for content-focused analysis?
The real question is ... how can you not?
Analysis uncovers unrealized challenges, risks, and opportunities. With
your analysis in hand, you can base your future recommendations on
reality. And that’s not just a good idea, it’s crucial. It’s a step you can’t
afford to skip.
Bite off Only What You Can Chew

-- 73 of 193 --

Analysis doesn’t have to be some megalithic effort. Your analysis
activities can be scaled according to project size and resource
constraints. Please note that we said scaled, not skipped.
If you’re short on time, figure out which activities and information are
most valuable to your specific project. Just remember: Every hour you
spend in analysis will likely save dozens, if not hundreds, of hours
during content creation, delivery, and upkeep.
Internal Impact Factors: Look Deep Within
Looking inside the organization is an easy place to start. After all, you
(or members of your client team) work there. But whether you work for
an organization directly or as a consultant, it’s hard to convince people to
do analysis on their own company. Why spend time, energy, and budget
learning things they already know?
Chances are, nobody’s ever sat down and taken a comprehensive look at
the content’s purpose, process, and policy. And, even if someone has,
how long ago did it happen? When internal analysis is ignored or out
of date, entire strategies are built on un-researched assumptions and
isolated opinions—costing everyone time and money.
How Do You “Do” Internal Analysis?
The best way to conduct an internal analysis—by far—is to talk to
people inside the organization. Sure, you can spend some time digging
through documentation, but at some point, human interaction is required.
You can get perspectives from people in several ways, such as:
• Interviews: One-on-one discussions are a great way to get the real
dirt. You’re able to follow the interviewee’s specific interests and
ask lots of follow-up questions. As an added benefit, interviews are
a great way to start a personal relationship and develop trust. That’ll
be helpful later, when you develop recommendations and try to
implement them.
• Group discussions: Talking to several people at once will get you
more general information than interviews. However, it’s an efficient
way to get information and help people learn about each other’s
perspectives at the same time. Be sure to keep groups to a
manageable size. Fewer than eight people is probably best.
• Questionnaires or surveys: These aren’t ideal, but they can help
you gather information from large groups of people, and help them

-- 74 of 193 --

feel included. Questionnaires and surveys work particularly well if
everyone you’re surveying does the same job. (For example, a well-
done email questionnaire to a group of sales reps could provide you
with a lot of information about how they use content during sales
calls.) Just be sure the questionnaires are short and easy to complete.
It’s also helpful if someone with authority encourages participation.
No matter what method you use, be sure to really listen to people—even
if their perspective is different than the majority’s. There is nearly always
something you can learn from everyone.
Once you’ve completed your conversations, summarize the big themes
and note discrepancies. You’ll want to include your interview results
when you share your research later. (It probably goes without saying, but
be careful not to betray any confidential information when reporting your
findings. Nothing kills trust like telling tales out of school.)
Listening: The Content Strategist’s Most Important Job
Brain Traffic’s Erin Anderson says that when it comes right down to it, our most important
job as content strategists isn’t content strategy. It’s listening.
This means the kind of listening that demands our active attention and participation. The
kind that leaves us with the information we need to recommend truly smart, thoughtful
content solutions. The kind that requires complete focus on the content challenge at hand.
Whether you’re scoping a project, clarifying user goals, or managing rounds of client
feedback, Erin suggests holding fast to a few rules for active listening:
1. Act like a journalist.
“Open questions” start with “who,” “what,” “when,” “where,” “why,” “how,” “how
much,” etc. If we’re only getting yes/no answers from a client, it means we’re being
lazy reporters. And it means our conversation can only scratch the surface in terms of
uncovering user needs and business goals.
2. Get comfortable with silence.
If a question we ask makes the interviewee pause or react emotionally, it’s natural to
want to lighten the mood. But jumping in to fill the silence can kill a potentially
illuminating discussion. Uncomfortable silences often signal an imminent
breakthrough or moment of truth. It’s worth letting your interviewee collect his
thoughts and respond candidly when he’s ready.
3. Ask silly questions.
We wouldn’t be doing anyone a favor by pretending we have all the answers. More to
the point, asking “stupid” questions quickly exposes the big, ugly, chronic content
problems nobody wants to tackle. A good goal is to ask at least one such question in
each client meeting.
4. Check your work.
So we’ve done our job, asked our questions, and listened carefully to the answers. But
only after we’ve agreed on the issues at hand can we proceed with a meaningful plan.
That means organizing the resulting data into a document that can be discussed,
aligned and signed off on, and used to guide the way forward.

-- 75 of 193 --

Factors that Matter
When you start peeking under the covers of your organization, it’s easy
to get overwhelmed. Seriously. It can be ugly in there. But you don’t
have to tackle everything at once. When you’re designing your interview
questions, start by focusing on these four topics:
• Target audiences: Who do you want to engage in conversation?
Why? (We’ll talk about actual users a little bit later.)
• Messaging: What do you want those target users to know, learn, or
“get” from your content?
• Channels: What channels (on- and offline) are used to deliver
content? How are they all connected? What is the business purpose
of each one?
• Workflow/Governance: How is content created, maintained, and
managed? Who’s involved?
In our experience, when you have answers to these questions, everything
else gets a lot clearer. And although they might sound easy, answering
these questions is deceptively difficult. Even if you can answer them off
the top of your head, it’s likely that people in your organization will have
different perspectives. And that’s where the fun begins.
Let’s take a closer look at the “big four.”
Target audiences: Who are you trying to reach?
Who is your web content for, ideally? As you ask your stakeholders this
question, people will have lots of different opinions. The marketers will
say, “It’s all about the customer.” Human resources will want to please
job seekers. Investor relations will want to talk to—surprise—the
investors. This is to be expected. For right now, just find out as much as
you can about each audience. Ask stakeholders to:
• Define their target audiences clearly. For example, ask, “When you
say ‘customers,’ which are you referring to: prospective customers,
existing customers, or both?”
• Describe why the audiences are important to them (the
stakeholders) and to the business. It may seem obvious why an
audience—like investors—is important, but hearing the stakeholder
specifically answer this question can be pretty informative.
• Arrange the target audiences in order of importance to them and to
the business (and if the lists are different, have them explain why).

-- 76 of 193 --

Compile all of the information you gather in your analysis findings
document so you can share it later. During the content strategy
recommendations phase, you’ll need to get everyone together and
negotiate some priorities and parameters. (See Chapter 8, Content.)
Messaging: What are you saying?
“Messaging” is one of those words that means something different to
everyone. To some, messaging is about creating specific words and
phrases in an approved copy bank. To others, it means defining a “brand
promise” or voice and tone (e.g., “We want to sound friendly but
sophisticated.”).
To us, messages are simply bits of information (thoughts or ideas).
Messaging is the art of deciding what information or ideas you want
to give to—and get from—your users. Needless to say, messaging is an
important part of defining your content requirements. You can use
messaging to:
• Prioritize content needs
• Keep content consistent (over media and time)
• Align content owners on content requirements
During your analysis, you don’t have to define the messages you will use
in your content going forward. But you do need to understand what
messages exist in content today (whether it’s on purpose or not) and how
(or if) stakeholders would like messaging to change in the future.
If you’re in a large organization, there might be multi-million dollar
projects devoted to creating established messaging hierarchies (present
and future). If you’re in a smaller organization, a web project might be
the first time anyone has really thought about messaging. Either way,
you need to get input from all of the key stakeholders about what they
want to say to their target audiences.
Then, when you create content strategy recommendations, you will work
with the stakeholders to narrow the field of possibilities—and choose the
right combination of messages for the content.
Channels: Everything’s connected
A channel is a medium through which content is delivered. Users are
likely going to use several channels (on- and offline) over the course of
their relationship with you, so it’s important that everything is consistent
and complementary. That means all of the content creators in the
organization, regardless of the channels they focus on, need to work

-- 77 of 193 --

together. The first step to that collaboration utopia is just identifying
what’s out there.
What channels exist?
Organizations are often stunned to realize how many content irons they
have in the fire. It’s not uncommon for a large organization to have
hundreds of websites all pointing to each other with no master plan. And
don’t get us started on print materials or social media or mobile
initiatives or SEO-focused content or ... are you cringing yet? Because
we are.
To get a handle on what exists, you can:
• Talk to communications producers (marketing, PR, advertising,
technical communications, etc.) and find out what they have and
how it’s related to your content. For example, is someone creating a
print brochure that will tell the user to go to your website for more
information? If so, the website needs to have more information.
Good to know.
• Ask your friendly IT people for help compiling a list of all the
URLs the company owns and stats on the traffic to each one. Are all
the URLs still active? Have any sites been ignored or forgotten?
How much traffic goes from one site to another?
• Follow the links on your corporate website and see where they go.
• Search for your organization on search engines and social media
sites—you might be surprised at what you find created by (and
about) your organization.
Common channels you should watch for include:
• Public website(s): What are all of your organization’s public
websites? (There are likely more than you think.)
• Social media activities: Where do you have active accounts? What
types of content are being shared among social media participants,
and where?
• Mobile: Is there a mobile version of your website? Do you have
proprietary applications delivering content to your mobile users?
• Intranets/extranets: Are there intranets/extranets associated with
the organization that your users may access?
• Public relations and awareness: How does the PR team work? Are
there other awareness campaigns or tactics? (For example, does
your boss do a lot of public speaking?)

-- 78 of 193 --

• Print media: Do you communicate to your users with brochures,
spec sheets, or similar? If so, are users likely to see those materials
before or after they see your web content? Do they refer to your
project content?
• Email campaigns: Do you communicate regularly to your users via
email? Will those emails link to your project content?
• Advertisements/SEM: Are there advertising campaigns currently
underway? What about paid search placements? Do they link to
your project content?
This undertaking, of course, is easier said than done in midsize to
behemoth-size organizations. If you can’t get the whole picture, start
with your highest priority channel or area of focus. Find out what it is
connected to. Repeat with the next priority channel when time and
resources allow.
Once you know what exists, mapping everything out can help you (and
your content partners) understand how things are interconnected. A map
sheds light on how important it is not to publish, revise, or remove
content without understanding what other sources may point to that
content as a solution or reference for potential customers.
Here’s a simple example. AwesomeCo is a growing software company.
They’re planning to redo their website, so they’ve created a channel map
with the website as the focus.

-- 79 of 193 --

How do users (ideally) interact with each channel?
The next step is to define the role each content delivery channel plays in
your target audiences’ relationship with your organization. When you
understand why (and when) the target users access each channel, you’ll
have a better grasp on what content belongs where.
One way to do this is to compare your channels to a “user lifecycle.” A
user lifecycle provides a step-by-step explanation of how the user
relationship would work in an ideal situation. The most common
lifecycles focus on a consumer purchase path (how we get a customer to
buy something). But, you can also create lifecycles for other objectives,
such as knowledge acquisition (how we get an audience to learn
something) or loyalty (how we entice an audience to return to the content
regularly). Check with your business strategy, communications, and
marketing teams to see if any of these lifecycles have already been
developed.
When you’ve established a lifecycle, you can see how your content
delivery channels fit into the overall process by assigning each channel

-- 80 of 193 --

