A Historical Anthology of
Literary Journalism
Jack London, Jimmy Breslin, Truman Capote, Tom Wolfe, George Orwell, A. J. Liebling,
.v KE VIn Kerrane
Norman Mailer, Charles Dickens, Lillian Ross, Ernest Hemingway, Marvel Cooke,
and Ben Yagoda^ . ■' i \
Martha Gellhorn, Joseph Mitchell, Rebecca West, John McPhee, Ryszard Kapuscinski, Joan Didion .

-- 1 of 568 --

U.S. $35.00
Can. $47.00
“Making facts dance. " That's how the editors of this
ambitious anthology describe literary journalism,
which unites the reporters eye for detail with the
novelist's gift of storytelling.
The Art of Fact is a historical treasury
tracing what used to be called “new” journalism
back to such pioneers as Defoe, Dickens, and
Orwell, and to crime writers, investigative social
reporters, and war correspondents who stretched
the limits of style and even propriety to communi¬
cate powerful truth. The tradition is alive and
well in stories that take us from a cantina in Los
Angeles to a lesbian bar in Dublin, from a massacre
in Tiananmen Square to a nonviolent revolution in
the Philippines. This international emphasis links
American literary journalists to their counterparts
in England, Africa, and Russia.
Here an extraordinary range of styles—the ele¬
gance of Gay Talese, the militance of Marvel
Cooke, the station-house cynicism of David
Simon, the manic intelligence of Richard Ben
Cramer illuminates an extraordinary range of
subjects: the life of a sports icon, the reality of black
domestic servitude, the daily grind of homicide
detectives, the roller coaster of a presidential elec¬
tion. From large public events (Jimmy Breslin on
the funeral of JFK) to small private moments (Gary
Smith on the struggles of a Native American
basketball player), these readings—sad, funny, and
most of all provocative—offer the double pleasure
of true stories artfully told.

-- 2 of 568 --

Digitized by the Internet Archive
in 2018 with funding from
Kahle/Austin Foundation
https://archive.org/details/artoffact00kevi_0

-- 3 of 568 --



-- 4 of 568 --



-- 5 of 568 --

Also by Kevin Kerrane
DOLLAR SIGN ON THE MUSCLE
The World of Baseball Scouting
Also by Ben Yagoda
WILL ROGERS:
A Biography

-- 6 of 568 --

THE
ART
OF
FACT
A HISTORICAL ANTHOLOGY
OF LITERARY JOURNALISM
EDITED BY
Kevin Kerrane
and Ben Yagoda
SCRIBNER

-- 7 of 568 --

SCRIBNER
1230 Avenue of the Americas
New York, NY 10020
Copyright © 1997 by Kevin Kerrane and Ben Yagoda
All rights reserved, including the right of reproduction in whole or in part in any form.
Scribner and design are regestered trademarks of Simon & Schuster Inc.
DESIGNED BY ERICH HOBBING
Text set in Fairfield
Manufactured in the United States of America
13579 10 8642
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
The art of fact: a historical anthology of literary journalism /
[compiled by] Kevin Kerrane and Ben Yagoda.
p. cm.
Includes index.
1. Literature—Collections. 2. Reporters and reporting. 3. Reportage literature.
I. Kerrane, Kevin. II. Yagoda, Ben.
PN6014.A76 1997
081—dc21 97-8497
CIP
ISBN 0-684-83041-8
See page 553 for text permissions.

-- 8 of 568 --

To the writers
collected hereiny
with intense admiration

-- 9 of 568 --



-- 10 of 568 --

Acknowledgments
Many people helped bring this book into being, some by suggesting possible
selections, others by graciously accepting scandalously low fees for their
splendid work. What we found almost everywhere, and what spurred us on
more than anything else, was a firm conviction that the book needed to exist.
Particular thanks to: Jerry Beasley, Mark Bowden, Rosie Boycott, Jimmy
Breslin, Bill Buford, Hodding Carter, Roy Peter Clark, Richard Ben Cramer,
Grace Darby, Carl Dawson, Henry Dunow, Carla Field, Don Fry, Martha
Gellhorn, Alan Halpern, Steve Helmling, Michael Herr, Godfrey Hodgson,
Kate Kerrane, Quinn Kerrane, Dennis Jackson, Alan Jenkins, Robert Lucid,
Sheila McGrath, Norman Mailer, the late Joseph Mitchell, Daniel Okrent,
Chip Scanlan, Bonnie Kime Scott, David Simon, Bill Stempel, Chuck
Stone, Arch Tait, Gay Talese, John Ware, and Jon Winokur.
Thanks, also, to Katharine and to Gigi, for support above and beyond
the call.
7

-- 11 of 568 --

■

-- 12 of 568 --

Contents
BEN YAGODA Preface 13
KEVIN KERRANE Making Facts Dance 17
PIONEERS
DANIEL DEFOE from The True and Genuine Account
of the Life and Actions of the Late
Jonathan Wild 23
JAMES BOSWELL from The Life of Samuel Johnson 29
HENRY MAYHEW Watercress Girl 34
CHARLES DICKENS The Great Tasmania's Cargo 38
WALT WHITMAN from Specimen Days 46
W. T. STEAD from If Christ Came to Chicago 49
STEPHEN CRANE When Man Falls, a Crowd Gathers 58
An Experiment in Misery 63
RICHARD HARDING DAVIS The Death of Rodriguez 71
ABRAHAM CAHAN Can t Get Their Minds Ashore 76
Pillelu, Pillelu! 80
JACK LONDON from The People of the Abyss 83
TELLING TALES
MORRIS MARKEY Drift 93
HICKMAN POWELL from Ninety Times Guilty 97
WALTER BERNSTEIN Juke Joint 104
JOHN HERSEY from Hiroshima 111
W. C. HEINZ The Day of the Fight 115
9

-- 13 of 568 --

CONTENTS
LILLIAN ROSS from “Portrait of Hemingway” 129
NORMAN LEWIS Two Generals 139
GAY TALESE The Silent Season of a Hero 143
TRUMAN CAPOTE from In Cold Blood 161
TOM WOLFE from The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test 169
PIERS PAUL READ from Alive 183
TRACY KIDDER from House 199
SYLVESTER MONROE
and PETER GOLDMAN from Brothers 204
BOR GREENE So . . . We Meet at Last, Mr. Bond 212
GARY SMITH Shadow of a Nation 218
RICHARD BEN CRAMER from What It Takes 236
THE REPORTER
TAKES THE STAGE
GEORGE ORWELL The Spike 245
MARVEL COOKE from “The Bronx Slave Market” 252
A. J. LIEBLING from The Earl of Louisiana 258
AL STUMP The Fight to Live 271
NORMAN MAILER from The Armies of the Night 290
HUNTER S. THOMPSON from “The Scum Also Rises” 302
RON ROSENBAUM The Last Secrets of Skull and Bones 316
TED CONOVER from Coyotes 331
JAMES FENTON from “The Snap Revolution” 336
JOHN SIMPSON Tiananmen Square 347
BILL BUFORD from Among the Thugs 354
ROSEMARY MAHONEY from Whoredom in Kimmage 367
LAWRENCE OTIS GRAHAM from “Harlem on My Mind” 384
DENNIS COVINGTON from “Snake Handling and Redemption”
STYLE AS SUBSTANCE
391
BEN HECHT The Pig 407
ERNEST HEMINGWAY Japanese Earthquake 411
JAMES AGEE from Let Us Now Praise Famous Men 417
10

-- 14 of 568 --

CONTENTS
MARTHA GELLHORN The Third Winter 422
GEORGE ORWELL Marrakech 433
JOSEPH MITCHELL Lady Olga 439
REBECCA WEST from Black Lamb and Grey Falcon 452
JOHN STEINBECK from Once There Was a War 458
JIMMY CANNON Lethal Lightning 461
JIMMY BRESLIN It’s an Honor 466
TOM WOLFE The Girl of the Year 469
JOAN DIDION Los Angeles Notebook 480
JOHN MCPHEE from The Pine Barrens 485
MICHAEL HERR from Dispatches 494
RYSZARD KAPUSCINSKI from Another Day of Life 507
DAVID SIMON from Homicide 522
SVETLANA ALEXIYEVICH from Boys in Zinc 536
MICHAEL WINERIP Holiday Pageant: The Importance of
Being Bluebell 549
Permissions 553
Index 557
11

-- 15 of 568 --



-- 16 of 568 --

Preface
If anything is less pleasant than long periods of standing in front of a photo¬
copying machine, it is haggling over copyright permissions, which explains
in part how this book came to be. Kevin Kerrane and I both found, when we
taught courses on what is called, for lack of a better term, “literary journal¬
ism, ” that there was no appropriate textbook to assign to our students. So
they would end up having to buy copies of Truman Capote s In Cold Blood
and John Hersey’s Hiroshima and Joseph Mitchells Up in the Old Hotel,
while we spent hours securing the rights to, reproducing, and distributing
copies of pieces by Liebling, Orwell, Lillian Ross, and other worthies we had
treasured for years or delightedly discovered over the previous summer. We
finally decided to take matters into our own hands; you are holding the
result in yours.
Putting the anthology together has been a bracing and sometimes exhila¬
rating experience, like planning and executing a dinner party with all the
best guests. The challenge, of course, was to winnow the guest list from the
thousands of potential invitees to the few dozen who made the final cut, and
the key to this process was to bring some definitions to literary journalism, a
profoundly fuzzy term. Most people are not acquainted with it; those who
are tend to use it to signify different things. It sometimes seems to refer to
nothing more specific than laudable nonfiction. For us, definition begins
with the second half of the formulation, that is, with “journalism.” And so
for a piece of writing to be included in this anthology, it must first of all be
factual. We do not mean to say that we guarantee the veracity of every state¬
ment in every piece in the collection. But we did disqualify works that were
not, in our view, informed and animated by the central journalistic commit¬
ment to the truth (not just The Truth). So we did not include Joseph
Mitchell s Old Mr. Flood, admittedly about a composite character, or John
Gregory Dunnes Vegas, admittedly a pastiche of fact and fancy, or such fac¬
tually problematic recent books as Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil
and Sleepers.
Journalism also implies a process of active fact-gathering—not just work¬
ing from memory or sensory observation but doing what reporters call
reporting. And this requirement was most helpful of all in winnowing the
13

-- 17 of 568 --

PREFACE
candidates for the anthology to manageable size. It eliminated volume after
volume of laudable nonfiction: memoir, essay (even the distinguished jour¬
nalistic essays of a Murray Kempton), nature writing, and travel writing
(though we did excerpt Rosemary Mahoney’s Whoredom in Kimmage and
Rebecca West’s Black Lamb and Grey Falcon, both of which offer substan¬
tially more than a literate account of the writer’s wanderings).
Our final journalistic criterion is currency—that a writer get on the story
soon after it happened. The longer the gap, the more the resulting work
edges into the realm of history, which is where we place such admittedly
groundbreaking and worthy books as The Longest Day; Praying for
Sheetrock, and Young Men and Fire.
So much for journalism. But just what kind of journalism is “literary”?
Our five-word answer would be: thoughtfully, artfully, and valuably innova¬
tive. The “innovative” is key, for two reasons. First, it is our view that like
much else in the twentieth century, journalism has been an object of mass
production, turned out according to codified standards and in agreed-upon
shapes. These standards are in many ways useful, yet they are also limiting,
and for a writer to cast one or more aside can be liberating.
Think of one of the most time-honored journalistic conventions, the
direct quotation. Thousands of editors have told a hundred thousand reporters
that quotes add essential liveliness to a story, and at the same time help cover
your posterior: if someone else provides the information, you don’t have to
stand by it. The reporters, for their part, know quotes are a splendid way to take
up space. All true; yet as tempting as they can be, after-the-fact quotes, sound
bites from the interview room, are antiliterary. They take the reader away
from the moment in question to some vague and indeterminate present in
which the quote is uttered. They take the writer away from his or her voice.
And they take away from the writing the deep-down appeal of once-upon-a-
time storytelling. Compare: “I knew I had to get out of there, ” said firefighter Ken
Jones with Jones knew he had to get out of there. The first is the boilerplate; the
second, a cobblestone in the road to art.
Quotes can be as hard to give up as any addiction. Verification becomes
an overarching issue (you can be sure what Jones said, but can you be sure
what he knew?), as does marshaling and structuring your data (quotes plug
in so easily!). But going inside Ken Jones’s head is so extraordinary, it is
worth the effort. Even if you are not prepared to make that particular jour¬
ney, there are others: with the addition of some props, stage directions, and
body language, his quotes can turn into dialogue and his entire account of
the fire becomes a scene.
Innovation is also important because, like portrait painting, rebounding,
playing blues guitar, or doing quantum physics, high-level literary journal¬
ism is a tradition, with each practitioner standing on the shoulders of his or
her predecessors. Thus, with In Cold Blood, Truman Capote was taking off
from the innovations of John Hersey’s Hiroshima, the first serious work to
14

-- 18 of 568 --

PREFACE
attempt a novelistic factual narrative on a large scale. And thus Tom Wolfe
would add his own wrinkle to this strain in The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test by
eschewing Capote’s uninflected and rather stiff narrative voice for a wigged-
out hip patois that mirrored his characters’ sensibility. It took a distin¬
guished novelist like Piers Paul Read, in Alive, to present real events with
the kind of suspense and emotion one expects from the best realistic fiction.
And, to bring this tale up to the present day, the woefully underrecognized
Gary Smith bores deep into his subjects' consciousness, emerging with an
intimacy and empathy that let him write the journalistic equivalent of Ray¬
mond Carver short stories.
Our premium on innovation also allowed us to pare our list of possible
inclusions, eliminating, for example, Alex Kotlowitz's There Are No Children
Here and Darcy Frey's The Last Shot, both of them outstanding books but
neither displaying techniques or approaches that hadn't been seen before.
Similarly, although more fine writing is being done for newspapers today
than ever, including some labeled explicitly as literary journalism, we found
that even the finest tended to be too traditional for our purposes. A news¬
paper article has to cover the bases, and even the best pieces we looked at
had long stretches of background, exposition, reaction and, yes, quotes.
As we read and debated, the pieces we selected fell into three principal
categories, which—along with the pre-twentieth-century pioneers that
anticipated them—constitute the anthology's sections. (Because of our his¬
torical emphasis, each section proceeds in chronological order.) The first is
narrative journalism, and the first of its two substrains is the novelistic tra¬
dition mentioned above—works of journalism where the reporter gathers as
much information as possible about an event, then uses it to re-create what
happened in the manner of narrative fiction. In the other strain, the model
is not the novel but the movie or play: the reporter is on the scene and more
or less matter-of-factly relates what happens, in the manner of a script.
Much of the artistry here lies in the reporter's retreat from our vision,
whether as partial or full-scale "fly on the wall.'' It is, in any case, much less
factually problematic than re-creation, which has always had to grapple with
this question: can one definitively assert that X happened or Y said Z if one
was not there to witness it? The dramatic set piece has long been a favorite
of newspaper columnists, who have found that it lets them be ironic, sar¬
donic, or sentimental without openly editorializing; practitioners repre¬
sented in the anthology are Ben Hecht, Jimmy Cannon, Jimmy Breslin, and
Bob Greene. In the 1940s, magazine writers like W. C. Heinz, Lillian Ross,
and Walter Bernstein wove scenes together into long articles. Ross's 1952
Picture, about the making of John Huston's The Red Badge of Courage and
not included here, applied the technique in a book, but no one confidently
stood on her shoulders until about thirty years later, when Tracy Kidder's
The Soul of a New Machine inaugurated a new wave of “process” books.
As obvious as this approach’s strengths is its main drawback: the near-
15

-- 19 of 568 --

PREFACE
impossibility—especially in these days of limited access—in most newswor¬
thy stories of a reporter’s being present at all the important scenes. As a
result, the I-am-a-camera school has tended to focus on the less significant
but far more accessible and frequently no less interesting tales. Kidder’s
books, for example, deal with the engineering of a particular model of com¬
puter, the building of a house, and a year in the respective lives of a grade-
school classroom and a nursing home.
Our second category consists of works with the reporter at the fore¬
front—which, as anyone who has ever taken Journalism 101 knows, violates
not only a formula but one of the guiding principles of the profession. It
turns out that, when done intelligently, violation can lead to inspiration.
James Boswell, George Orwell, A. J. Liebling, Hunter Thompson, Norman
Mailer, and James Fenton would seem to have little in common besides lit¬
erary eminence. One other thing they share is an understanding that out-
sized and unabashed subjectivity can be a superb route to understanding.
The disembodied, measured voice of classic journalism is a kind of flimflam;
the pure objectivity it implies is probably unattainable by humans. By step¬
ping out from the shadows and laying bare his or her prejudices, anxieties,
or thought processes the reporter gives us something firmer and truer to
hold on to as we come to our own conclusions.
There is a distinct possibility for abuse here: the reporter’s forgetting that
he is not the story, just a means to it. And where the use of “I” should offer
the reporter a means to construct a multidimensional and memorable char¬
acter, in magazine journalism today it has become a reflexive cliche. Still,
the narrative presence has unquestionably given to journalism more than it
has taken away.
The last category, Style as Substance, shows that the road to literary jour¬
nalism has many more than two lanes. Some writers (James Agee, Joseph
Mitchell, Tom Wolfe, Joan Didion, John McPhee) have crafted distinctive
voices that elevate their work to the level of literature. Others (Orwell, John
Steinbeck, David Simon, Svetlana Alexiyevich, Ryszard Kapuscinski) have
artfully and fruitfully experimented with structure or chronology or even
syntax. And for some selections, like Rebecca West’s heartbreaking and pre¬
scient account of the people of the Bosnian town of Travnik, the criterion
for inclusion is little more than prose of a remarkably high order.
It would certainly be possible to organize this anthology differently—by
theme, for example. But here it stands, for better or worse, and we will be
satisfied if it does one thing: make the case that literary journalism exists,
and is not an oxymoron.
—Ben Yagoda
16

-- 20 of 568 --

Making Facts Dance
In 1973, when Tom Wolfe coedited a wonderful anthology called The New
Journalism, he naturally emphasized differences between traditional
reportage and the creative nonfiction of his own day New journalists, Wolfe
said, combined in-depth reporting with literary ambition: they wanted to
make the nonfiction story shimmer “like a novel” with the pleasures of
detailed realism. As an afterthought, Wolfe noted that this journalism had
been prefigured, in a shadowy way, by earlier novelist-reporters like Charles
Dickens, George Orwell, and John Hersey.
Our anthology reverses Wolfe’s emphasis by giving prominence to such pio¬
neers, and by connecting their work to the journalism of the 1960s and 70s—
and beyond. Our very first selection honors a great factual storyteller, perhaps
the first true modern literary journalist: Daniel Defoe, whose 1725 tract on the
criminal Jonathan Wild offers a prototype of the modern true-crime narrative.
Later excerpts from Hickman Powell, Truman Capote, and David Simon show
striking modifications of that genre over the last sixty years.
Another genre—we might call it tales of the city—has been popularized
by such newspaper writers as Jimmy Breslin and Rick Bragg. It is the
human-interest story as social parable: a narrative form that can be traced
back to Morris Markey and Ben Hecht, through Abraham Cahan at the turn
of the century, and ultimately to Victorian social reporters such as Dickens,
Henry Mayhew, and W. T. Stead.
The term “new journalism,” in fact, was originally coined by Matthew
Arnold in 1887 to describe the style of Steads Pall Mall Gazette: brash,
vivid, personal, reform-minded—and occasionally, from Arnold’s conserva¬
tive viewpoint, “featherbrained.” The Victorian social reporters, and the
American muckrakers who followed them, aimed at a factual literature of
modern industrial life. Their literary touches came less from artistic design
than from the writers’ sense of moral or political urgency: a determination to
dramatize the reality of poverty, prostitution, and prejudice. Looking for
news amid the daily struggles of the unknown poor, Henry Mayhew edited
his interviewees’ responses into sustained dramatic monologues. Exploring
the urban abyss, Jack London became a character in his own story: the nar¬
rator as dropout, undertaking a secret journey to the cultural interior.
17

-- 21 of 568 --

MAKING FACTS DANCE
The downwardly mobile reporter reappears here in the writing of George
Orwell, Marvel Cooke, Lawrence Graham, and Ted Conover—and can also
be found in many other brave works of investigative journalism, from John
Howard Griffin’s Black Like Me (an American white passing as black) to
Yoram Binur’s My Enemy My Self (an Israeli living as a Palestinian). In every
case, the narrative point of view is possible only because of the writer’s com¬
plete immersion in the world of the story.
Similarly, war reporting has evolved from nineteenth-century scene
painting to close-ups of direct experience. When the great Victorian jour¬
nalist William Howard Russell wrote his 1854 dispatch on the charge of the
Light Brigade, he was watching from a ridge two miles away. Seven years
later, covering the Battle of Bull Run, Russell arrived late—and so was
caught in the middle of a Union retreat. Most New York correspondents had
left the scene early, to file dispatches of an apparent Union victory. Russell’s
account described “a miserable, causeless panic’’ in a way that no other
report could, and for that reason it generated huge controversy.
Modern correspondents aim for a startling image of what Martha Gell-
horn called the face of war. To capture that image, they may try all kinds of
experiments. Richard Harding Davis slows the pace to an agony of anticipa¬
tion; John Hersey replays the same moments from the viewpoints of six vic¬
tims; John Steinbeck fragments the events of one day into a sequence of
brute sensations; Michael Herr internalizes the paranoia of combatants;
Svetlana Alexiyevich creates a fugue of dramatic monologues. Gellhorn her¬
self breaks up a war story with parenthetical memories that reveal the
dimensions of civilian suffering. She typifies the outlook of the modern cor¬
respondent in treating war not as a matter of strategic weapons or mass
movements, but as a cruelty inflicted on individuals, one after another.
New trends in sports writing are also evident here. An old-fashioned style,
based on florid description and moral pronouncement, was fading by the
1940s. Jimmy Cannon’s account of the second Joe Louis—Billy Conn fight in
1946 relied instead on photographic realism and startling subjectivity to
create a total picture of the event. Later selections from A1 Stump, Gay
Talese, Gary Smith, and Bill Buford show how the modern sports story can
open out into a psychological profile or a cultural parable.
A topical approach to literary journalism highlights what was really new
in the nonfiction of the 1960s and ’70s. Tom Wolfe stressed stylistic innova¬
tions: scene-by-scene narration, dramatic dialogue, experiments in point of
view, and attention to the symbolic details of social life. But much of this
fresh writing was, first and foremost, a direct response to the transforming
events of the era: war protests, race riots, assassinations, and countercul¬
tural challenges to all proprieties. The reporting of Norman Mailer or
Hunter Thompson, or of Wolfe himself, shows that the “genteel voice’’ of
traditional reportage was no longer sufficient to articulate public reality.
* * H-
18

-- 22 of 568 --

MAKING FACTS DANCE
Wolfe’s anthology included only one non-American writer: Nicholas Toma¬
lin, whose reporting from Vietnam in 1966 caught the manic bravado of
U.S. Army officers. In 1973, covering the Yom Kippur War, Tomalin was
killed by a stray shell. But between stints as a war correspondent, he had
coauthored—with Ron Hall—one of the most intriguing nonfiction works of
the period: The Strange Last Voyage of Donald Crowhurst (1970).
Trying to “combine the techniques of the novelist with those of the jour¬
nalist,’’ Tomalin and Hall told of the madness and suicide of a competitor in
a round-the-world sailing race. They were writing for the London Sunday
Times, Crowhurst’s sponsor in the race, and their investigative reporting
included complex analysis of Crowhurst’s several logs (all but one false), as
well as a convincing reconstruction of his final days at sea. “The actual
sequence of events,’’ they observed, “had the shape and inevitability of fic¬
tional tragedy.’’ (Robert Stone later used many details of the story in his
novel Outerhridge Reach.) For two decades Crowhurst’s family has refused
permission to reprint any part of the book, and yet it remains at the center of
what might be called the British new journalism.
We have included work by several British writers—Norman Lewis, Piers
Paul Read, John Simpson, and James Fenton—to illustrate an alternate tra¬
dition of literary reportage. More examples could be found in almost any
issue of Granta or the British edition of Esquire. Such stories may be less
mannered or self-conscious than their American equivalents, but they are
no less dramatic. Built on ironic details and edgy dialogue, they proceed
with a rapid pace and a compelling voice, often politically engaged. In many
respects, they illustrate the legacy of George Orwell.
Orwell is also a model for journalists, even outside Britain, who have cre¬
ated a genre of postcolonial reportage. In 1939 Orwell’s “Marrakech’ was a
prescient essay, in the form of five vignettes, on the coming demise of
empire. His imagistic and transitionless style, his focus on poverty, and his
preoccupation with the “consciousness’’ of colonialism (often marked by a
literal inability to see natives)—all are operative in the reports of Ryszard
Kapuscinski on civil war in Angola, Rian Malan on apartheid in South
Africa, and Svetlana Alexiyevich on the Russian conflict in Afghanistan.
The critic B. T. Oxley describes Orwell’s nonfiction books of the 1930s—
Down and Out in Paris and London, The Road to Wigan Pier, and Homage to
Catalonia—as “documentaries.” He means that these social reports are sus¬
tained investigations, suffused with atmosphere and carried forward by a far
more personal voice than any straightforward sociological survey would
allow. Today, of course, “documentary” usually refers to nonfiction on film,
and in the last twenty-five years the boundaries of factual cinema have been
stretched to accommodate just such qualities of atmosphere and personality.
A quarter-century ago, when “new journalism” was a new term, the most
interesting documentary movies were in the fly-on-the-wall style of Freder¬
ick Wiseman’s High School or the Maysles brothers’ Salesman. The flat
19

-- 23 of 568 --

MAKING FACTS DANCE
objective manner of these films was like the reportorial tone of Ernest Hem¬
ingway or W. C. Heinz. Today documentaries are closer to exploratory
essays, and some explicitly follow the lead of literary reportage. Director
George Butler describes his documentary about hunters, In the Blood, as
cinematic new journalism: “Em trying to take the facts and adhere to truth,
but to give it a dramatic structure—just as Tom Wolfe, Norman Mailer, and
GayTalese gave a dramatic structure to nonfiction.”
Butler uses his thirteen-year-old son as a pivotal character in the movie.
Other directors, like Michael Moore (Roger and Me) or Nick Broomfield
(Heidi Fleiss: Hollywood Madam), become pivotal characters themselves:
gonzo reporters trying to get the impossible interview. But even third-person
documentaries now emulate the stylistic exuberance of literary journalism.
Such nonfiction films as The Thin Blue Line, Crumb, or Hoop Dreams—a
true-crime narrative, a portrait of an artist, a sports story in counterpoint—
borrow storytelling ideas from print reporting even while adding their own
cinematic flair.
Literary journalism also sets the standard for documentary in its extraor¬
dinary range of subject matter. The Art of Fact includes reports on huge pub¬
lic events such as John F. Kennedy’s funeral, Richard Nixon’s resignation,
the Tiananmen Square massacre, and on the private underside of experi¬
ence, including the most apparently mundane or eccentric details of life.
Barrooms, for example, become brilliant dramatic settings in the writing of
Walter Bernstein, Ted Conover, and Rosemary Mahoney.
John Grierson, the father of the British nonfiction film, defined docu¬
mentary as “the creative treatment of actuality.” Ben Yagoda, my coeditor,
describes literary journalism as ‘‘making facts dance.” Both formulations
point to the double pleasure of true stories artfully told.
But the print journalist still enjoys one great advantage over the film¬
maker. Despite continuous improvements in equipment—ever more light¬
weight and portable, with less need for special lighting—the camera’s
presence subtly alters the very reality it would show. By contrast, the eye of
the writer is an omnipresent lens, no more and no less intrusive than the
mind behind it. The literary journalist enjoys greater freedom in researching
a story and greater flexibility in telling it, often refocusing in an instant to
take us beneath the surface and into the psyche, either a character’s or the
writer’s own.
As a result, the stories stay with us and, as this book suggests, they may
even read better over time. And so the best characterization of literary jour¬
nalism may ultimately be the definition that Ezra Pound gave for literature
itself: “news that stays news.”
—Kevin Kerrane
20

-- 24 of 568 --



-- 25 of 568 --



-- 26 of 568 --

From The True and Genuine Account
of the Life and Actions of the Late
Jonathan Wild
DANIEL DEFOE
Daniel Defoe (1659—1731) built a writing career in the zone between fic¬
tion and fact. His novels, rich in realistic detail, read like documentary
reports, while his journalism shines with literary quality. This generic
ambiguity is typified by A Journal of the Plague Year (1722), which purports
to be a survivor s memoir of the 1665 London epidemic; in fact, the book is
a clever composite of Defoe’s family history, early childhood memories,
and very extensive reading.
In 1704 Defoe wrote the first modern work of “disaster journalism,” The
Storm, an eyewitness account of terrible devastation along the southern
coast of England. That same year he became editor of The Review; a news¬
paper blending party politics and honest reporting. For the next decade,
three times a week, Defoe single-handedly produced the paper and wrote
every article.
The literary dimension of Defoe’s journalism is evident in his 1725 tract
about Jonathan Wild, the infamous confidence man who had been exe¬
cuted a few months earlier. Defoe insisted that the story was “Not made up
of fiction and fable, but taken from his [Wild s] own mouth, and collected
from papers of his own writing.” The tract included Defoe’s own brief
encounter with Wild, but it drew primarily on interviews with victims and
jailers, and even with the underlings in Wild’s crime ring. Moll King, men¬
tioned at the beginning of this excerpt, was a source for Defoe’s novel, Moll
Flanders.
Defoe was modern not only in the thoroughness of his reporting but in
the scenic organization of his story. One long conversation, reprinted here,
provides a dramatic reconstruction of Wild’s chicanery, showing how he
played on the sympathies of well-to-do robbery victims even as he terror-
23

-- 27 of 568 --

THE ART OF FACT
ized the thieves in his employ. Literary details abound, such as the “Calli-
mancoe night-gown’’—the woolen robe in which Wild conducted his busi¬
ness, and in which he was later hanged. That execution scene is
memorable not for any description of the hanging but for its images of a
doped-up prisoner and an impatient crowd.
Defoe’s tract helped to make Jonathan Wild a legendary figure. In 1728
Wild was incarnated as Peachum in John Gay’s play The Beggar’s Oyera. In
1742 he became the protagonist of Henry Fielding’s novel The Life of Mr.
Jonathan Wild the Great, which turned his criminality into political satire.
Defoe’s goal was more modest—a factual story with occasional moral
observations—but in achieving it, he created a prototype of the modern
true-crime narrative.
[W]hen ever any person came to enquire for his goods lost, he could make a
tolerable guess at the thief by the quarter of the town you lived in, or where
you were when you lost it. . . .
[One] case related to a gold watch, with trinkets and some diamonds
about either the watch, and the lady offered very considerably for the restor¬
ing it, as I remember, £30, but no advertisements had been published. Mr.
Wild, after the usual enquiries of when it was lost, and where; and being told
it was at St. Ann’s church, Westminster, pauses a while, and calls up a servant
and asks aloud, “where was M-11 K-g last Sunday?” “About West¬
minster,” says the man, “but the bi-h would not tell where.” “Was she
crank [pulling a confidence trick]?” says Mr. Wild. “I don’t know,” says
the fellow. However, turning to the lady, says he, “Madam, I fancy I shall be
able to serve you, and perhaps for less money than your ladyship speaks of.
If it be M-11 K-g, that woman I have in my thoughts, as I believe tis,
for she is a dexterous jade at the work, I’ll have her safe before morning. ” The
lady, full of compassion returns, “O sir! Don’t take her up. I assure you I
won’t prosecute, I’ll rather lose my watch than have any poor wretch hanged
for it.” “Why, madam,” says Mr. Wild, “We can’t talk with her but by threat¬
ening. We must not make a bargain with her; that would be to compound a
felony. If I can persuade her to come and bring your watch and ask your par¬
don, will that satisfy you?" “Nay,” says the lady, “I don’t know whether that
would be safe neither. If she will send it me, I had rather. And I’ll forgive her,
without asking pardon.” “Well, madam, will you take it and give the porter
that brings it 20 guineas, if you please, but not to oblige you to it.” “Whatever
you say, Mr. Wild,” says the lady. “Well madam,” says Mr. Wild, “if I may have
the honour to see your ladyship again.”
Lady: Will it not do if I send anybody?
Wild: Why, truly, no madam: People that deal in these things do not care
for witnesses.
24

-- 28 of 568 --

DANIEL DEFOE
Lady: Well, well, that's true. I’ll come myself. What day would you have
me come?
Wild: On Thursday, madam.
Lady: Well, Mr. Wild, what must I do? What will satisfy you for your trouble?
Wild: It is time enough, madam, to speak of that when I am sure I can do
you any service. These creatures are very loose, and I can’t tell you how it
may be.
Lady: Well, Mr. Wild, I’ll come furnished to pay my respects to you.
Wild: Madam, your most obedient servant.
(Waits on her to her coach.)
Accordingly, Thursday coming, the Lady appears. Mr. Wild in his Calli-
mancoe night-gown, (the same he was hanged in) receives her; and with a
pleasant look tells her he is very glad to be able to say that he believes he
shall serve her. That it was the same woman he suspected, and that the jade
had already pawned the watch for some money, but that it was but a little,
and he was glad she had.
Lady: Why, Mr. Wild?
Wild: Because, madam, if she had kept it all this while, it would have been
ten to one but she had broke something about it, or done it some mischief.
Lady: That’s true, indeed. Pray, what has she pawned it for?
Wild: Not much, madam, she has got but seven guineas upon it yet.
Lady: Well, Mr. Wild, what must be done?
Wild: Why, madam, if the people that have it, bring it safe and sound to
your ladyship, will you give me your honour that you will ask no questions,
or stop the person that comes with it?
Lady: I promise you, on my word, I will not.
Wild: The man that brings it may be a poor innocent fellow that knows
nothing of it.
Lady: Well, well, he shall have no harm or interruption from me.
Wild: Then I believe your ladyship may hear something of it tonight.
Lady: And what must I give him?
Wild: I don’t yet know, madam, but I’ll bring them as low as I can. Not
above 20 guineas, to be sure, madam.
Lady: That is very kind indeed. Well, Mr. Wild, then I’ll make it up to you.
(So the lady pulls out her purse in order to give him some money.)
Wild: No, madam, not a farthing. Besides, you have not got your watch
yet. Pray stay till you see whether the jade will perform; though I think,
indeed, I am pretty sure of her.
Lady: Well, I’ll take your word, Mr. Wild.
(Offers him money again.)
Wild: By no means, madam. Let me see if I can serve you.
Lady: Well, Mr. Wild, if it must be so, I must come again then.
Wild: It may be not. Will your ladyship be pleased to stay about half an
hour?
25

-- 29 of 568 --

THE ART OF FACT
Lady: Ay, with all my heart.
In about half an hour, Jonathan having been called hastily out, comes in
again immediately. “Madam,” says he, “if your ladyship pleases to go into
your coach, and drive gently up -street, perhaps a messenger may
desire to speak with you as you go along.”
“Very well, Mr. Wild, I understand you.”
Upon the lady’s going along-street, a ticket-porter, with his hat in
his hand, shows himself by the coach-side, and the lady taking the hint,
stops her coach and lets down the glass, and speaking to the fellow, says,
“Would you speak with me, friend?”
The fellow says not a word, but delivers into her hand the watch with all
the trinkets and diamonds perfectly safe; and when she had looked upon it a
little, gives her a note, wherein was written nothing but thus in words at
length,
Eighteen Guineas.
The lady immediately tells out the money to the porter, and he was going
away. “Hold, honest friend,” says the lady, “there’s somewhat for yourself,”
and gives him half a guinea, and so dismissed him.
A day or two after she makes Mr. Wild a visit, and presents him with 15
guineas more. But with great difficulty made him accept of it; telling her it
was a great deal too much; that he would not take it by any means, but at last
accepts it, with the ceremony of saying he would not take it on account of
the watch, but for having been at some trouble in serving her ladyship, in
which she was pleased to reward him much more than he deserved. When
at the same time twas very likely [Wild] had part of the 18 guineas too from
M-11 K-g, who he frighted out of the watch with threatening to have
her put into Newgate for stealing of it. . . .
. . . We come
now to his behaviour after this condemnation, and at the place of execution;
at which last place he indeed scarce said a word to God or man, being either
dozed with the liquid laudanum which he had taken, or demented and con¬
fused by the horror of what was before him, and the reflection of what was
within him. Nor even before he took the dose of laudanum was he in any suit¬
able manner sensible of his condition, or concerned about it, very little sign
appeared of his having the least hope concerning his future state. But as he
lived hardened, he seemed to die stupid. He declined coming to the chapel,
either to the sermon or prayers, pleading his lameness by the gout, but
chiefly the crowds and disorders of the people discomposing or disordering
him. In the condemned hold, or place where malefactors are kept after their
sentence, they had prayers as usual; and he seemed to join with them in a kind
of form, but little or nothing of the penitence of a criminal, in view of death,
appeared upon him. His principal enquiries seemed to be about what kind of
26

-- 30 of 568 --

DANIEL DEFOE
state was to be expected after death, and how the invisible world was to be
described; but nothing of the most certain judgement which is there to be
expected, righteous and terrible, according to the deeds done in the body, or
of a saviour to whom to have recourse, as the slayer in the old law had to the
city of refuge, to save him from the avenger of blood. As his time shortened he
seemed more and more confused, and then began to entertain discourses of
the lawfulness of dismissing ourselves out of the present misery, after the exam¬
ple of the ancient Romans, which, as he said, was then esteemed as an act of
bravery and gallantry, and recorded to their honour.
This kind of discourse was indeed sufficient to have caused the keepers to
have had an eye to him, so as to prevent any violence he might offer to him¬
self, and they did watch him as narrowly as they could. However, he so far
deceived them, as that the day before his execution he found means to have
a small bottle with the liquid laudanum conveyed to him unseen, of which he
took so large a quantity, that it was soon perceived by the change it made upon
him, for he was so drowsy that he could not hold up his head, or keep open his
eyes, at the time of reading the prayers. Upon this two of his fellow prisoners
endeavoured to rouse him (not suspecting that he had taken enough to hurt
him) and taking him by the hands, they persuaded him to stand up, and walk
a little about the room, which he could not do without help because of his
gout. This walking, though it did a little waken him, had several other oper¬
ations at the same time. For first it changed his countenance, turning it to be
exceeding pale, then it put him into a violent sweat, which made them
apprehend he would faint, upon which they offered to give him something to
keep up his spirits, but he refused it, telling them he was very sick; soon after
which he vomited very violently, and this in all probability prolonged his life
for the execution. For by their stirring him, and making him vomit, he
brought up the greatest part of the laudanum which he had taken, before it
had been long enough in his stomach to mix with the animal spirits or
blood, which if it had done but one hour more, he would certainly have taken
his last sleep in the prison. But nature, having thus discharged itself of the load,
he revived again, and though still dozed and insensible of what he said or did,
yet he was able to walk about, speak, and act sufficiently for the part that
remained to him, namely, for the last scene of his life at the gallows.
Accordingly on Monday the 24th of May, he was conveyed in a cart to
Tyburn, and though it was apparent he was still under the operation of the
laudanum, and that which was left in his stomach had so far seized upon his
spirits as to make him almost stupid, yet it began to go off, and nature get¬
ting the mastery of it, he began to be more sensible of what he was going
about; but the scene was then short, and he had little to do but to stand up
in the cart, and, the needful apparatus being made, be turned off with the
rest, which was done about 3 a-clock in the afternoon. The rudeness of
the mob to him, both at his first going into the cart, and all the way from
thence to the place of execution, is not to be expressed, and shows how
27

-- 31 of 568 --

THE ART OF FACT
notorious his life had been, and what impression his known villainies had
made on the minds of the people. For, contrary to the general behaviour of
the street in such cases, instead of compassionate expressions, and a general
cast of pity, which ordinarily sits on the countenances of the people, when
they see the miserable objects of justice go to their execution; here was
nothing to be heard but cursings and execrations. Abhorring the crimes and
the very name of the man, throwing stones and dirt at him all the way, and
even at the place of execution; the other malefactors being all ready to be
turned off, but the hangman giving him leave to take his own time, and he
continuing setting down in the cart, the mob impatient, and fearing a
reprieve, though they had no occasion for it, called furiously upon the hang¬
man to dispatch him, and at last threatened to tear him to pieces, if he did
not tie him up immediately.
In short there was a kind of an universal rage against him, which nothing
but his death could satisfy, or put an end to, and if a reprieve had come, it
would have, twas thought, been difficult for the officers to have brought him
back again without his receiving some mischief, if not his death s wound
from the rabble. So detestable had he made himself by his notorious crimes,
and to such a height were his wicked practices come.
Thus ended the tragedy, and thus was a life of horrid and inimitable
wickedness finished at the gallows, the very same place where, according to
some, above 120 miserable creatures had been hanged whose blood in great
measure may be said to lie at his door, either in their being first brought into
the thieving trade, or led on in it by his encouragement and assistance; and
many of them at last betrayed and brought to justice by his means, upon
which worst sort of murder he valued himself, and would have had it passed
for merit, even with the government itself.
28

-- 32 of 568 --

From The Life of Samuel Johnson
JAMES BOSWELL
In the era when journalism was defined by distanced objectivity the writings
of James Boswell (1740—1795) would not have qualified: he was eager to
express his opinions; he thrust himself into the narrative spotlight; and on
occasion he blatantly stage-managed the action. It wasn’t until the icono¬
clastic new journalism of the 1960s and 70s that reporters started permit¬
ting themselves such license, and Boswell deserves to be recognized as a
progenitor of the movement. The Life of Samuel Johnson (1791), Boswell’s
masterwork, also anticipated what Tom Wolfe, in his essay “The New Jour¬
nalism,” called “scene-by-scene construction”: the biography proceeds
largely through theatrical set pieces, with copious dialogue and Wolfean
“status details.” Finally, Boswell’s fascination with fame (he confessed to a
“desire of being acquainted with celebrated men of every description ”)
has a contemporary feel, prefiguring the rampant celebrity journalism of
today.
Theorists of journalism have long noted parallels to Heisenberg’s uncer¬
tainty principle in physics: by reporting on something, one subtly but irrev¬
ocably changes it. In this excerpt, Boswell throws subtlety aside and
unabashedly tricks Dr. Johnson into having dinner with an archenemy,
John Wilkes. Among the charms of the passage are the toothsome descrip¬
tion of Wilkes serving veal to Johnson, Boswell’s testiness over the anti-
Scottish humor, and his (again) unabashed pleasure at his feat of
matchmaking: “I exulted as much as a fortune-hunter who has got an
heiress into a post-chaise with him to set out for Gretna-Green.”
I am now to record a very curious incident in Dr. Johnson’s life, which fell
under my own observation; and which I am persuaded will, with the liberal-
minded, be much to his credit.
My desire of being acquainted with celebrated men of every description,
29

-- 33 of 568 --

THE ART OF FACT
had made me, much about the same time, obtain an introduction to Dr.
Samuel Johnson and to John Wilkes, Esq. Two men more different could per¬
haps not be selected out of all mankind. They had even attacked one another
with some asperity in their writings; yet I lived in habits of friendship with
both. I conceived an irresistible wish, if possible, to bring Dr. Johnson and
Mr. Wilkes together. How to manage it, was a nice and difficult matter.
My worthy booksellers and friends, Messieurs Dilly in the Poultry, at
whose hospitable and well-covered table I have seen a greater number of lit¬
erary men, than at any other, except that of Sir Joshua Reynolds, had invited
me to meet Mr. Wilkes and some more gentlemen on Wednesday, May 15.
“Pray (said I,) let us have Dr. Johnson/'—“What, with Mr. Wilkes? not for
the world, (said Mr. Edward Dilly:) Dr. Johnson would never forgive me/’—
“Come, (said I,) if you’ll let me negociate for you, I will be answerable that
all shall go well. ” DILLY: “Nay, if you will take it upon you, I am sure I shall be
very happy to see them both here.”
Notwithstanding the high veneration which I entertained for Dr. John¬
son, I was sensible that he was sometimes a little actuated by the spirit of
contradiction, and by means of that I hoped I should gain my point. I was
persuaded that if I had come upon him with a direct proposal, “Sir, will you
dine in company with Jack Wilkes?” he would have flown into a passion, and
would probably have answered, “Dine with Jack Wilkes, Sir! I’d as soon dine
with Jack Ketch.” I therefore, while we were sitting quietly by ourselves at
his house in an evening, took occasion to open my plan thus:—“Mr. Dilly,
Sir, sends his respectful compliments to you, and would be happy if you
would do him the honour to dine with him on Wednesday next along with
me, as I must soon go to Scotland.” JOHNSON: “Sir, I am obliged to Mr. Dilly.
I will wait upon him—” BOSWELL: “Provided, Sir, I suppose, that the com¬
pany which he is to have, is agreeable to you.” JOHNSON: “What do you
mean, Sir? What do you take me for? Do you think I am so ignorant of the
world, as to imagine that I am to prescribe to a gentleman what company he
is to have at his table?” BOSWELL: “I beg your pardon, Sir, for wishing to pre¬
vent you from meeting people whom you might not like. Perhaps he may
have some of what he calls his patriotick friends with him.” JOHNSON: “Well,
Sir, and what then? What care I for his patriotick friends? Poh!” BOSWELL: “I
should not be surprised to find Jack Wilkes there.” JOHNSON: “And if Jack
Wilkes should be there, what is that to me, Sir? My dear friend, let us have
no more of this. I am sorry to be angry with you; but really it is treating me
strangely to talk to me as if I could not meet any company whatever, occa¬
sionally.” BOSWELL: “Pray forgive me, Sir: I meant well. But you shall meet
whoever comes, for me.” Thus I secured him, and told Dilly that he would
find him very well pleased to be one of his guests on the day appointed.
Upon the much-expected Wednesday, I called on him about half an hour
before dinner, as I often did when we were to dine out together, to see that
he was ready in time, and to accompany him. I found him buffeting his
30

-- 34 of 568 --

JAMES BOSWELL
books, as upon a former occasion, covered with dust, and making no prepa¬
ration for going abroad. “How is this, Sir? (said I.) Don’t you recollect that
you are to dine at Mr. Dilly’s?” JOHNSON: “Sir, I did not think of going to
Dilly’s: it went out of my head. I have ordered dinner at home with Mrs.
Williams.” BOSWELL: “But, my dear Sir, you know you were engaged to Mr.
Dilly, and I told him so. He will expect you, and will be much disappointed if
you don’t come.” JOHNSON: “You must talk to Mrs. Williams about this.”
Here was a sad dilemma. I feared that what I was so confident I had
secured would yet be frustrated. He had accustomed himself to shew Mrs.
Williams such a degree of humane attention, as frequently imposed some
restraint upon him; and I knew that if she should be obstinate, he would not
stir. I hastened down stairs to the blind lady’s room, and told her I was in
great uneasiness, for Dr. Johnson had engaged to me to dine this day at Mr.
Dilly’s, but that he had told me he had forgotten his engagement, and had
ordered dinner at home. “Yes, Sir, (said she, pretty peevishly,) Dr. Johnson is
to dine at home”—“Madam, (said I,) his respect for you is such, that I know
he will not leave you unless you absolutely desire it. But as you have so
much of his company, I hope you will be good enough to forego it for a day;
as Mr. Dilly is a very worthy man, has frequently had agreeable parties at his
house for Dr. Johnson, and will be vexed if the Doctor neglects him to-day.
And then, Madam, be pleased to consider my situation; I carried the mes¬
sage, and I assured Mr. Dilly that Dr. Johnson was to come, and no doubt he
has made a dinner, and invited a company, and boasted of the honour
he expected to have. I shall be quite disgraced if the Doctor is not there.’’
She gradually softened to my solicitations, which were certainly as earnest
as most entreaties to ladies upon any occasion, and was graciously pleased
to empower me to tell Dr. Johnson, “That all things considered, she thought
he should certainly go.” I flew back to him, still in dust, and careless of what
should be the event, “indifferent in his choice to go or stay”; but as soon as I
had announced to him Mrs. Williams’s consent, he roared, “Frank, a clean
shirt,” and was very soon drest. When I had him fairly seated in a hackney-
coach with me, I exulted as much as a fortune-hunter who has got an heiress
into a post-chaise with him to set out for Gretna-Green.
When we entered Mr. Dilly’s drawing room, he found himself in the
midst of a company he did not know. I kept myself snug and silent, watching
how he would conduct himself. I observed him whispering to Mr. Dilly,
“Who is that gentleman, Sir?”—“Mr. Arthur Lee.”—JOHNSON: “Too, too,
too,” (under his breath,) which was one of his habitual mutterings. Mr.
Arthur Lee could not but be very obnoxious to Johnson, for he was not only
a patriot but an American. He was afterwards minister from the United
States at the court of Madrid. “And who is the gentleman in lace?”—“Mr.
Wilkes, Sir.” This information confounded him still more; he had some dif¬
ficulty to restrain himself, and taking up a book, sat down upon a window-
seat and read, or at least kept his eye upon it intently for some time, till he
31

-- 35 of 568 --

THE ART OF FACT
composed himself. His feelings, I dare say, were awkward enough. But he no
doubt recollected his having rated me for supposing that he could be at all
disconcerted by any company, and he, therefore, resolutely set himself to
behave quite as an easy man of the world, who could adapt himself at once
to the disposition and manners of those whom he might chance to meet.
The cheering sound of “Dinner is upon the table,” dissolved his reverie,
and we all sat down without any symptom of ill humour. . . . Mr. Wilkes
placed himself next to Dr. Johnson, and behaved to him with so much atten¬
tion and politeness, that he gained upon him insensibly. No man eat more
heartily than Johnson, or loved better what was nice and delicate. Mr. Wilkes
was very assiduous in helping him to some fine veal. “Pray give me leave,
Sir:—It is better here—A little of the brown—Some fat, Sir—A little of the
stuffing—Some gravy—Let me have the pleasure of giving you some butter—
Allow me to recommend a squeeze of this orange;—or the lemon, perhaps,
may have more zest.”—“Sir, Sir, I am obliged to you, Sir,” cried Johnson, bow¬
ing, and turning his head to him with a look for some time of “surly virtue,”
but, in a short while, of complacency. . . .
Talking of the great difficulty of obtaining authentick information for
biography, Johnson told us, “When I was a young fellow I wanted to write the
Life of Dryden, and in order to get materials, I applied to the only two persons
then alive who had seen him; these were old Swinney, and old Cibber. Swin-
ney’s information was no more than this, ‘That at Will s coffee-house Dryden
had a particular chair for himself, which was set by the fire in winter, and was
then called his winter-chair; and that it was carried out for him to the balcony
in summer, and was then called his summer-chair.’ Cibber could tell no more
but ‘That he remembered him a decent old man, arbiter of critical disputes
at Will’s.’You are to consider that Cibber was then at a great distance from
Dryden, had perhaps one leg only in the room, and durst not draw in the
other.”
Mr. Arthur Lee mentioned some Scotch who had taken possession of a
barren part of America, and wondered why they should choose it. JOHNSON:
“Why, Sir, all barrenness is comparative. The Scotch would not know it to be
barren.” BOSWELL: “Come, come, he is flattering the English. You have now
been in Scotland, Sir, and say if you did not see meat and drink enough
there.” JOHNSON: “Why yes, Sir; meat and drink enough to give the inhabi¬
tants sufficient strength to run away from home.” All these quick and lively
sallies were said sportively, quite in jest, and with a smile, which showed that
he meant only wit. Upon this topick he and Mr. Wilkes could perfectly
assimilate; here was a bond of union between them, and I was conscious
that as both of them had visited Caledonia, both were fully satisfied of the
strange narrow ignorance of those who imagine that it is a land of famine.
But they amused themselves with persevering in the old jokes. When I
claimed a superiority for Scotland over England in one respect, that no man
can be arrested there for a debt merely because another swears it against
32

-- 36 of 568 --

JAMES BOSWELL
him; but there must first be the judgement of a court of law ascertaining its
justice; and that a seizure of the person, before judgement is obtained, can
take place only, if his creditor should swear that he is about to fly from the
country, or, as it is technically expressed, in meditatione figae: WILKES: “That,
I should think, may be safely sworn of all the Scotch nation/’ JOHNSON: (to
Mr. Wilkes,) “You must know, Sir, I lately took my friend Boswell and
shewed him genuine civilised life in an English provincial town. I turned
him loose at Lichfield, my native city, that he might see for once real civility:
for you know he lives among savages in Scotland, and among rakes in Lon¬
don.” WILKES: “Except when he is with grave, sober, decent people like you
and me.” JOHNSON: (smiling,) “And we ashamed of him.”
They were quite frank and easy. Johnson told the story of his asking Mrs.
Macaulay to allow her footman to sit down with them, to prove the ridicu¬
lousness of the argument for the equality of mankind; and he said to me
afterwards, with a nod of satisfaction, “You saw Mr. Wilkes acquiesced.”
After dinner we had an accession of Mrs. Knowles, the Quaker lady, well
known for her various talents, and of Mr. Alderman Lee. Amidst some patri-
otick groans, somebody (I think the Alderman) said, “Poor old England is
lost.” JOHNSON: “Sir, it is not so much to be lamented that Old England is
lost, as that the Scotch have found it.” Mr. Wilkes held a candle to shew a
fine print of a beautiful female figure which hung in the room, and pointed
out the elegant contour of the bosom with the finger of an arch connoisseur.
He afterwards, in a conversation with me, waggishly insisted, that all the
time Johnson shewed visible signs of a fervent admiration of the corre¬
sponding charms of the fair Quaker.
This record, though by no means so perfect as I could wish, will serve to
give a notion of a very curious interview, which was not only pleasing at the
time, but had the agreeable and benignant effect of reconciling any animos¬
ity, and sweetening any acidity, which in the various bustle of political con¬
test, had been produced in the minds of two men, who though widely
different, had so many things in common—classical learning, modern liter¬
ature, wit, and humour, and ready repartee—that it would have been much
to be regretted if they had been for ever at a distance from each other.
Mr. Burke gave me much credit for this successful negotiation; and
pleasantly said, that “there was nothing to equal it in the whole history of
the Corps Diplomatique. ”
33

-- 37 of 568 --

Watercress Girl
HENRY MAYHEW
The literary career of Henry Mayhew (1812-1887) included stints as a
novelist, travel writer, educator, magazine editor, and satirist. In 1841 May¬
hew cofounded Punch, the great Victorian comic weekly. In 1849, when
he became “Metropolitan Correspondent” for the London Morning Chron¬
icle, he discovered his true vocation.
Mayhews tales of the city focused on lives stunted by economic hard¬
ship, illuminating them through vivid details and fresh reporting. Accord¬
ing to the novelist William Thackeray, Mayhew presented “a picture of
human life so wonderful, so awful, so piteous and pathetic, so exciting and
terrible, that readers of romances own they never read anything like to it.”
One of Mayhews innovations resulted from the limits of newspaper
space: he edited out his own questions and wove the interviewee s words
into a continuous testimony, a kind of life statement, a dramatic mono¬
logue in prose. He preserved authentic tones and turns of phrase (“I bears
the cold—you must”) but reorganized them for dramatic emphasis, espe¬
cially at the end of each story. Today Mayhews method is most familiar in
the books of Chicago journalist Studs Terkel (Working), but it also under¬
lies the whole genre of oral history.
Mayhew saw his work as a venture in practical social science, and in
1861-62 he published London Labour and the London Poor, a four-volume
survey of the city’s “street people,” categorized by occupation and caste.
But his style remained more literary than sociological, informed by respect
for "the heroism of the unknown poor” and by an artist’s eye for archetypes
rather than stereotypes.
The little watercress girl who gave me the following statement, although only
eight years of age, had entirely lost all childish ways, and was, indeed, in
thoughts and manner, a woman. There was something cruelly pathetic in hear-
34

-- 38 of 568 --

HENRY MAYHEW
ing this infant, so young that her features had scarcely formed themselves, talk¬
ing of the bitterest struggles of life, with the calm earnestness of one who had
endured them all. I did not know how to talk with her. At first I treated her as
a child, speaking on childish subjects; so that I might, by being familiar with
her, remove all shyness, and get her to narrate her life freely. I asked her about
her toys and her games with her companions; but the look of amazement that
answered me soon put an end to any attempt at fun on my part. I then talked
to her about the parks, and whether she ever went to them. “The parks!” she
replied in wonder, “where are they?” I explained to her, telling her that they
were large open places with green grass and tall trees, where beautiful carriages
drove about, and people walked for pleasure, and children played. Her eyes
brightened up a little as I spoke; and she asked, half doubtingly, “Would they
let such as me go there—just to look?” All her knowledge seemed to begin and
end with watercresses, and what they fetched. She knew no more of London
than that part she had seen on her rounds, and believed that no quarter of the
town was handsomer or pleasanter than it was at Farringdon-market or at
Clerkenwell, where she lived. Her little face, pale and thin with privation, was
wrinkled where the dimples ought to have been, and she would sigh frequently.
When some hot dinner was offered to her, she would not touch it, because,
if she eat too much, “it made her sick,” she said; “and she wasn’t used to meat,
only on a Sunday.”
The poor child, although the weather was severe, was dressed in a thin
cotton gown, with a threadbare shawl wrapped round her shoulders. She
wore no covering to her head, and the long rusty hair stood out in all direc¬
tions. When she walked she shuffled along, for fear that the large carpet
slippers that served her for shoes should slip off her feet.
“I go about the streets with water-creases, crying, ‘Four bunches a penny,
water-creases.’ I am just eight years old—that’s all, and I’ve a big sister, and
a brother, and a sister younger than I am. On and off, I’ve been very near a
twelvemonth in the streets. Before that, I had to take care of a baby for my
aunt. No, it wasn’t heavy—it was only two months old; but I minded it for
ever such a time—till it could walk. It was a very nice baby, not a very pretty
one; but, if I touched it under the chin, it would laugh. Before I had the
baby, I used to help mother, who was in the fur trade; and, if there was any
slits in the fur, I’d sew them up. My mother learned me to needle-work and
to knit when I was about five. I used to go to school, too; but I wasn’t there
long. I’ve forgot all about it now, it’s such a time ago; and mother took me
away because the master whacked me, though the missus use’n’t to never
touch me. I didn’t like him at all. What do you think? he hit me three times,
ever so hard, across the face with his cane, and made me go dancing down
stairs; and when mother saw the marks on my cheek, she went to blow him
up, but she couldn’t see him—he was afraid. That’s why I left school.
“The creases is so bad now, that I haven’t been out with ’em for three
days. They’re so cold, people won’t buy ’em; for when I goes up to them, they
35

-- 39 of 568 --

THE ART OF FACT
say, ‘They’ll freeze our bellies.’ Besides, in the market, they won’t sell a
ha’penny handful now—they’re ris to a penny and tuppence. In summer
there’s lots, and ’most as cheap as dirt; but I have to be down at Farringdon-
market between four and five, or else I can’t get any creases, because every¬
one almost—especially the Irish—is selling them, and they’re picked up so
quick. Some of the saleswomen—we never calls ’em ladies—is very kind to
us children, and some of them altogether spiteful. The good one will give
you a bunch for nothing, when they’re cheap; but the others, cruel ones,
if you try to bate them a farden less than they ask you, will say, ‘Go along
with you, you’re no good.’ I used to go down to market along with another
girl, as must be about fourteen, cos she does her back hair up. When we’ve
bought a lot, we sits down on a door-step, and ties up the bunches. We never
goes home to breakfast till we’ve sold out; but, if it’s very late, then I buys a
penn’orth of pudden, which is very nice with gravy. I don’t know hardly one
of the people, as goes to Farringdon, to talk to; they never speaks to me, so I
don’t speak to them. We children never play down there, cos we re thinking
of our living. No; people never pities me in the street—excepting one gen¬
tleman, and he says, says he, ‘What do you do out so soon in the morning?’
but he gave me nothink—he only walked away.
“It’s very cold before winter comes on reg’lar—specially getting up of a
morning. I gets up in the dark by the light of the lamp in the court. When
the snow is on the ground, there’s no creases. I bears the cold—you must; so
I puts my hands under my shawl, though it hurts ’em to take hold of the
creases, especially when we takes ’em to the pump to wash ’em. No; I never
see any children crying—it’s no use.
“Sometimes I make a great deal of money. One day I took Is. 6d., and the
creases cost 6d.; but it isn’t often I get such luck as that. I oftener makes 3d.
or 4d. than Is.: and then I’m at work, crying, ‘Creases, four bunches a penny,
creases!’ from six in the morning to about ten. What do you mean by
mechanics?—I don’t know what they are. The shops buys most of me. Some
of ’em says, ‘Oh! I ain’t a-goin’ to give a penny for these’; and they want ’em
at the same price as I buys ’em at.
“I always give mother my money, she’s so very good to me. She don’t often
beat me; but, when she do, she don’t play with me. She’s very poor, and goes
out cleaning rooms sometimes, now she don’t work at the fur. I ain’t got no
father, he’s a father-in-law. No; mother ain’t married again—he’s a father-in-
law. He grinds scissors, and he’s very good to me. No; I don’t mean by that
that he says kind things to me, for he never hardly speaks. When I gets
home, after selling creases, I stops at home. I puts the room to rights:
mother don’t make me do it, I does it myself. I cleans the chairs, though
there’s only two to clean. I takes a tub and scrubbing-brush and flannel, and
scrubs the floor—that’s what I do three or four times a week.
“I don’t have no dinner. Mother gives me two slices of bread-and-butter
and a cup of tea for breakfast, and then I go till tea, and has the same. We
36

-- 40 of 568 --

H E N RY MAYH EW
has meat of a Sunday, and, of course, I should like to have it every day.
Mother has just the same to eat as we has, but she takes more tea—three
cups, sometimes. No; I never has no sweet-stuff; I never buy none—I don’t
like it. Sometimes we has a game of ‘honey-pots’ with the girls in the court,
but not often. Me and Carry H-carries the little uns. We plays, too, at
‘kiss-in-the-ring.’ I knows a good many games, but I don’t play at ’em, cos
going out with creases tires me. On a Friday night, too, I goes to a Jew’s
house till eleven o’clock on Saturday night. All I has to do is to snuff the can¬
dles and poke the fire. You see they keep their Sabbath then, and they won’t
touch anything; so they gives me my wittals and 1 l/2d., and I does it for
’em. I have a reg’lar good lot to eat. Supper of Friday night, and tea after
that, and fried fish of a Saturday morning, and meat for dinner, and tea, and
supper, and I like it very well.
“Oh, yes; I’ve got some toys at home. I’ve a fire-place, and a box of toys,
and a knife and fork, and two little chairs. The Jews gave ’em to me where I
go to on a Friday, and that’s why I said they was very kind to me. I never had
no doll; but I misses little sister—she’s only two years old. We don’t sleep in
the same room; for father and mother sleeps with little sister in the one pair,
and me and brother and other sister sleeps in the top room. I always goes to
bed at seven, ’cos I has to be up so early.
“I am a capital hand at bargaining—but only at buying water-creases.
They can’t take me in. If the woman tries to give me a small handful of
creases, I says, ‘I ain’t a goin’ to have that for a ha’porth,’ and I go to the next
basket, and so on, all round. I know the quantities very well. For a penny I
ought to have a full market hand, or as much as I could carry in my arms at
one time, without spilling. For 3d. I has a lap full, enough to earn about a
shilling; and for 6d. I gets as many as crams my basket. I can’t read or write,
but I knows how many pennies goes to a shilling, why, twelve, of course, but
I don’t know how many ha’pence there is, though there’s two to a penny.
When I’ve bought 3d. of creases, I ties ’em up into as many little bundles as
I can. They must look biggish, or the people won’t buy them, some puffs
them out as much as they’ll go. All my money I earns I puts in a club and
draws it out to buy clothes with. It’s better than spending it in sweet-stuff,
for them as has a living to earn. Besides it’s like a child to care for sugar-
sticks, and not like one who’s got a living and vittals to earn. I ain’t a child,
and I shan’t be a woman till I’m twenty, but I’m past eight, I am. I don’t know
nothing about what I earns during the year, I only know how many pennies
goes to a shilling, and two ha’pence goes to a penny, and four fardens goes to
a penny. I knows, too, how many fardens goes to tuppence—eight. That’s as
much as I wants to know for the markets.’’
37

-- 41 of 568 --

The Great Tasmania’s Cargo
CHARLES DICKENS
Charles Dickens (1812-1870) started his career as a reporter of debates in
the house of Commons, and a certain journalistic fervor informs his nov¬
els, as they insinuate their way into the hidden cracks of society and shine
a great light on them. In 1860, having achieved international success as a
novelist, he returned to nonfiction in a series of articles published in his
weekly periodical All the Year Round, adopting the persona “the Uncom¬
mercial Traveller.” (“Figuratively speaking, I travel for the great house of
Human Interest Brothers,” he wrote in the preface to the collection of
these pieces.) In “The Great Tasmania’s Cargo,” he tries to find the truth
behind a well-publicized incident in which British soldiers in India, after
perceived insubordination, had been imprisoned and shipped home under
very hard conditions.
Dickens is an unmistakable presence in his journalism, and not only
because, as with the Circumlocution Office, transposed from Little Dorrit
to “The Great Tasmania’s Cargo,” he reprises conceits used in his novels.
We also recognize the moral fervor, the rhetorical flights, the Manichaean
world populated by obfuscating scoundrels and put-upon saints. Less
expected (but not surprising, considering those days in Commons) is his
reportorial rigor. Dickens interlocution of the good sergeant toward the
end of the piece could be used as a model in a journalism school lecture on
interviewing. And while his “official friend” Pangloss is a composite char¬
acter named for the incurably optimistic tutor in Voltaire’s Candide, and
thus not kosher by today’s standards, he shows Dickens’s mastery of the
classic reporter’s strategy of simultaneously eliciting and deriding the
official view.
I travel constantly, up and down a certain line of railway that has a terminus
in London. It is the railway for a large military depot, and for other large bar-
38

-- 42 of 568 --

CHARLES DICKENS
racks. To the best of my serious belief, I have never been on that railway by
daylight, without seeing some handcuffed deserters in the train.
It is in the nature of things that such an institution as our English army
should have many bad and troublesome characters in it. But, this is a reason
for, and not against, its being made as acceptable as possible to well-disposed
men of decent behaviour. Such men are assuredly not tempted into the
ranks, by the beastly inversion of natural laws, and the compulsion to live in
worse than swinish foulness. Accordingly, when any such Circumlocutional
embellishments of the soldier s condition have of late been brought to notice,
we civilians, seated in outer darkness cheerfully meditating on an Income
Tax, have considered the matter as being our business, and have shown a ten¬
dency to declare that we would rather not have it misregulated, if such dec¬
laration may, without violence to the Church Catechism, be hinted to those
who are put in authority over us.
Any animated description of a modern battle, any private soldier’s letter
published in the newspapers, any page of the records of the Victoria Cross,
will show that in the ranks of the army, there exists under all disadvantages
as fine a sense of duty as is to be found in any station on earth. Who doubts
that if we all did our duty as faithfully as the soldier does his, this world
would be a better place? There may be greater difficulties in our way than in
the soldier’s. Not disputed. But, let us at least do our duty towards him.
I had got back again to that rich and beautiful port where I had looked
after Mercantile Jack, and I was walking up a hill there, on a wild March
morning. My conversation with my official friend Pangloss, by whom I was
accidentally accompanied, took this direction as we took the up-hill direc¬
tion, because the object of my uncommercial journey was to see some dis¬
charged soldiers who had recently come home from India. . . . [T]here were
men who had been in many of the great battles of the great Indian cam¬
paign, among them; and I was curious to note what our discharged soldiers
looked like, when they were done with.
I was not the less interested (as I mentioned to my official friend Pan¬
gloss) because these men had claimed to be discharged, when their right to
be discharged was not admitted. They had behaved with unblemished
fidelity and bravery; but, a change of circumstances had arisen, which, as
they considered, put an end to their compact and entitled them to enter on
a new one. Their demand had been blunderingly resisted by the authorities
in India; but, it is to be presumed that the men were not far wrong, inas¬
much as the bungle had ended in their being sent home discharged, in pur¬
suance of orders from home. (There was an immense waste of money, of
course.)
Under these circumstances—thought I, as I walked up the hill, on which
I accidentally encountered my official friend—under these circumstances
of the men having successfully opposed themselves to the Pagoda Depart¬
ment of that great Circumlocution Office on which the sun never sets and
39

-- 43 of 568 --

THE ART OF FACT
the light of reason never rises, the Pagoda Department will have been par¬
ticularly careful of the national honour. It will have shown these men, in the
scrupulous good faith, not to say the generosity, of its dealing with them,
that great national authorities can have no small retaliations and revenges.
It will have made every provision for their health on the passage home, and
will have landed them, restored from their campaigning fatigues by a sea-
voyage, pure air, sound food, and good medicines. And I pleased myself with
dwelling beforehand, on the great accounts of their personal treatment
which these men would carry into their various towns and villages, and on
the increasing popularity of the service that would insensibly follow. I
almost began to hope that the hitherto-never-failing deserters on my rail¬
road would by-and-by become a phenomenon.
In this agreeable frame of mind I entered the workhouse of Liverpool.—-
For, the cultivation of laurels in a sandy soil, had brought the soldiers in
question to that abode of Glory.
Before going into their wards to visit them, I inquired how they had made
their triumphant entry there? They had been brought through the rain in
carts, it seemed, from the landing-place to the gate, and had then been car¬
ried up-stairs on the backs of paupers. Their groans and pains during the
performance of this glorious pageant, had been so distressing, as to bring
tears into the eyes of spectators but too well accustomed to scenes of suffer¬
ing. The men were so dreadfully cold, that those who could get near the fires
were hard to be restrained from thrusting their feet in among the blazing
coals. They were so horribly reduced, that they were awful to look upon.
Racked with dysentery and blackened with scurvy, one hundred and forty
wretched soldiers had been revived with brandy and laid in bed.
My official friend Pangloss is lineally descended from a learned doctor of
that name, who was once tutor to Candide, an ingenious young gentleman
of some celebrity. In his personal character, he is as humane and worthy a
gentleman as any I know; in his official capacity, he unfortunately preaches
the doctrines of his renowned ancestor, by demonstrating on all occasions
that we live in the best of all possible official worlds.
“In the name of Humanity/’ said I, “how did the men fall into this
deplorable state? Was the ship well found in stores?”
“I am not here to asseverate that I know the fact, of my own knowledge,”
answered Pangloss, “but I have grounds for asserting that the stores were
the best of all possible stores.”
A medical officer laid before us a handful of rotten biscuit, and a handful
of split peas. The biscuit was a honeycombed heap of maggots, and the
excrement of maggots. The peas were even harder than this filth. A similar
handful had been experimentally boiled six hours, and had shown no signs
of softening. These were the stores on which the soldiers had been fed.
“The beef—” I began, when Pangloss cut me short.
“Was the best of all possible beef,” said he.
40

-- 44 of 568 --

CHARLES DICKENS
But, behold, there was laid before us certain evidence given at the Coro¬
ner’s Inquest, holden on some of the men (who had obstinately died of their
treatment), and from that evidence it appeared that the beef was the worst
of possible beef!
“Then I lay my hand upon my heart, and take my stand,’’ said Pangloss,
“by the pork, which was the best of all possible pork.’’
“But look at this food before our eyes, if one may so misuse the word,’’
said I. ‘Would any Inspector who did his duty, pass such abomination?’’
“It ought not to have been passed,” Pangloss admitted.
“Then the authorities out there—” I began, when Pangloss cut me short
again.
“There would certainly seem to have been something wrong somewhere,”
said he; “but I am prepared to prove that the authorities out there, are the
best of all possible authorities.”
I never heard of any impeached public authority in my life, who was not
the best public authority in existence.
“We are told of these unfortunate men being laid low by scurvy,” said I.
“Since lime-juice has been regularly stored and served out in our navy,
surely that disease, which used to devastate it, has almost disappeared? Was
there lime-juice aboard this transport?”
My official friend was beginning “the best of all possible—” when an
inconvenient medical forefinger pointed out another passage in the evi¬
dence, from which it appeared that the lime-juice had been bad too. Not
to mention that the vinegar had been bad too, the vegetables bad too, the
cooking accommodation insufficient (if there had been anything worth
mentioning to cook), the water supply exceedingly inadequate, and the beer
sour.
“Then the men,” said Pangloss, a little irritated, “were the worst of all
possible men.”
“In what respect?” I asked.
“Oh! Habitual drunkards,” said Pangloss.
But, again the same incorrigible medical forefinger pointed out another
passage in the evidence, showing that the dead men had been examined
after death, and that they, at least, could not possibly have been habitual
drunkards, because the organs within them which must have shown traces
of that habit, were perfectly sound.
“And besides,” said the three doctors present, one and all, “habitual
drunkards brought as low as these men have been, could not recover under
care and food, as the great majority of these men are recovering. They would
not have strength of constitution to do it.”
“Reckless and improvident dogs, then,” said Pangloss. “Always are—nine
times out of ten.”
I turned to the master of the workhouse, and asked him whether the men
had any money?
41

-- 45 of 568 --

THE ART OF FACT
“Money?” said he. “I have in my iron safe, nearly four hundred pounds of
theirs; the agents have nearly a hundred pounds more; and many of them
have left money in Indian banks besides.”
“Hah!” said I to myself, as we went up-stairs, “this is not the best of all
possible stories, I doubt!”
We went into a large ward, containing some twenty or five-and-twenty
beds. We went into several such wards, one after another. I find it very diffi¬
cult to indicate what a shocking sight I saw in them, without frightening the
reader from the perusal of these lines, and defeating my object of making it
known.
O the sunken eyes that turned to me as I walked between the rows of
beds, or—worse still—that glazedly looked at the white ceiling, and saw
nothing and cared for nothing! Here, lay the skeleton of a man, so lightly
covered with a thin unwholesome skin, that not a bone in the anatomy was
clothed, and I could clasp the arm above the elbow, in my finger and thumb.
Here, lay a man with the black scurvy eating his legs away, his gums gone,
and his teeth all gaunt and bare. This bed was empty, because gangrene had
set in, and the patient had died but yesterday. That bed was a hopeless one,
because its occupant was sinking fast, and could only be roused to turn the
poor pinched mask of face upon the pillow, with a feeble moan. The awful
thinness of the fallen cheeks, the awful brightness of the deep set eyes, the
lips of lead, the hands of ivory, the recumbent human images lying in the
shadow of death with a kind of solemn twilight on them, like the sixty who
had died aboard the ship and were lying at the bottom of the sea, O Pan¬
gloss, God forgive you!
In one bed, lay a man whose life had been saved (as it was hoped) by deep
incisions in the feet and legs. While I was speaking to him, a nurse came up
to change the poultices which this operation had rendered necessary, and I
had an instinctive feeling that it was not well to turn away, merely to spare
myself. He was sorely wasted and keenly susceptible, but the efforts he
made to subdue any expression of impatience or suffering, were quite heroic.
It was easy to see, in the shrinking of the figure, and the drawing of the bed¬
clothes over the head, how acute the endurance was, and it made me shrink
too, as if I were in pain; but, when the new bandages were on, and the poor
feet were composed again, he made an apology for himself (though he had
not uttered a word), and said plaintively, “I am so tender and weak, you see,
sir!” Neither from him nor from any one sufferer of the whole ghastly num¬
ber, did I hear a complaint. Of thankfulness for present solicitude and care,
I heard much; of complaint, not a word.
I think I could have recognised in the dismalest skeleton there, the ghost
of a soldier. Something of the old air was still latent in the palest shadow of
life I talked to. One emaciated creature, in the strictest literality worn to the
bone, lay stretched on his back, looking so like death that I asked one of the
doctors if he were not dying, or dead? A few kind words from the doctor, in
42

-- 46 of 568 --

CHARLES DICKENS
his ear, and he opened his eyes, and smiled—looked, in a moment as if he
would have made a salute, if he could. “We shall pull him through, please
God,” said the Doctor. “Plase God, surr; and thankye,” said the patient. “You
are much better today; are you not?” said the Doctor. “Plase God, surr; tis
the slape I want, surr; ’tis my breathin’ makes the nights so long.’’ “He is a
careful fellow this, you must know,’’ said the Doctor, cheerfully; “it was rain¬
ing hard when they put him in the open cart to bring him here, and he had
the presence of mind to ask to have a sovereign taken out of his pocket that
he had there, and a cab engaged. Probably it saved his life.’’ The patient rat¬
tled out the skeleton of a laugh, and said, proud of the story, “Deed, surr, an
open cairt was a comical means o’ bringin’ a dyin’ man here, and a clever way
to kill him.” You might have sworn to him for a soldier when he said it.
One thing had perplexed me very much in going from bed to bed. A very
significant and cruel thing. I could find no young man but one. He had
attracted my notice, by having got up and dressed himself in his soldier’s
jacket and trousers, with the intention of sitting by the fire; but he had
found himself too weak, and had crept back to his bed and laid himself down
on the outside of it. I could have pronounced him, alone, to be a young man
aged by famine and sickness. As we were standing by the Irish soldier’s bed,
I mentioned my perplexity to the Doctor. He took a board with an inscrip¬
tion on it from the head of the Irishman’s bed, and asked me what age I sup¬
posed that man to be? I had observed him with attention while talking to
him, and answered, confidently, “Fifty.” The Doctor, with a pitying glance at
the patient, who had dropped into a stupor again, put the board back, and
said, “Twenty-four.”
All the arrangements of the wards were excellent. They could not have
been more humane, sympathising, gentle, attentive, or wholesome. The
owners of the ship, too, had done all they could, liberally. There were bright
fires in every room, and the convalescent men were sitting round them,
reading various papers and periodicals. I took the liberty of inviting my offi¬
cial friend Pangloss to look at those convalescent men, and to tell me
whether their faces and bearing were or were not, generally, the faces and
bearing of steady respectable soldiers? The master of the workhouse, over¬
hearing me, said he had had a pretty large experience of troops, and that bet¬
ter conducted men than these, he had never had to do with. They were
always (he added) as we saw them. And of us visitors (I add) they knew noth¬
ing whatever, except that we were there.
It was audacious in me, but I took another liberty with Pangloss. Prefac¬
ing it with the observation that, of course, I knew beforehand that there was
not the faintest desire, anywhere, to hush up any part of this dreadful busi¬
ness, and that the Inquest was the fairest of all possible Inquests, I besought
four things of Pangloss. Firstly, to observe that the Inquest was not held in
that place, but at some distance off. Secondly, to look round upon those
helpless spectres in their beds. Thirdly, to remember that the witnesses pro-
43

-- 47 of 568 --

THE ART OF FACT
duced from among them before that Inquest, could not have been selected
because they were the men who had the most to tell it, but because they
happened to be in a state admitting of their safe removal. Fourthly, to say
whether the Coroner and Jury could have come there, to those pillows, and
taken a little evidence? My official friend declined to commit himself to a
reply.
There was a sergeant, reading, in one of the fireside groups. As he was a
man of very intelligent countenance, and as I have great respect for non¬
commissioned officers as a class, I sat down on the nearest bed, to have
some talk with him. (It was the bed of one of the grisliest of the poor skele¬
tons, and he died soon afterwards.)
“I was glad to see, in the evidence of an officer at the Inquest, sergeant,
that he never saw men behave better on board ship than these men.”
“They did behave very well, sir.”
“I was glad to see, too, that every man had a hammock.”
The sergeant gravely shook his head. “There must be some mistake, sir.
The men of my own mess had no hammocks. There were not hammocks
enough on board, and the men of the two next messes laid hold of ham¬
mocks for themselves as soon as they got on board, and squeezed my men
out, as I may say.”
“Had the squeezed-out men none then?”
“None, sir. As men died, their hammocks were used by other men, who
wanted hammocks; but many men had none at all.”
“Then you don’t agree with the evidence on that point?”
“Certainly not, sir. A man can’t, when he knows to the contrary.”
“Did any of the men sell their bedding for drink?”
“There is some mistake on that point too, sir. Men were under the impres¬
sion—I knew it for a fact at the time—that it was not allowed to take blankets
or bedding on board, and so men who had things of that sort came to sell
them purposely.”
“Did any of the men sell their clothes for drink?”
“They did, sir.” (I believe there never was a more truthful witness than the
sergeant. He had no inclination to make out a case.)
“Many?”
“Some, sir” (considering the question). “Soldier-like. They had been long
marching in the rainy season, by bad roads—no roads at all, in short—and
when they got to Calcutta, men turned to and drank, before taking a last
look at it. Soldier-like.”
“Do you see any men in this ward, for example, who sold clothes for drink
at that time?”
The sergeant’s wan eye, happily just beginning to rekindle with health,
travelled round the place and came back to me. “Certainly, sir.”
“The marching to Calcutta in the rainy season must have been severe?”
“It was very severe, sir.”
44

-- 48 of 568 --

CHARLES DICKENS
“Yet what with the rest and the sea air, I should have thought that the
men (even the men who got drunk) would have soon begun to recover on
board ship?”
“So they might; but the bad food told upon them, and when we got into a
cold latitude, it began to tell more, and the men dropped.’’
“The sick had a general disinclination for food, I am told, sergeant?”
“Have you seen the food, sir?”
“Some of it.”
“Have you seen the state of their mouths, sir?”
If the sergeant, who was a man of a few orderly words, had spoken the
amount of this volume, he could not have settled that question better. I
believe the sick could as soon have eaten the ship, as the ship’s provisions.
I took the additional liberty with my friend Pangloss, when I had left the
sergeant with good wishes, of asking Pangloss whether he had ever heard of
biscuit getting drunk and bartering its nutritious qualities for putrefaction
and vermin; of peas becoming hardened in liquor; of hammocks drinking
themselves off the face of the earth; of lime-juice, vegetables, vinegar, cook¬
ing accommodation, water supply, and beer, all taking to drinking together
and going to ruin? “If not (I asked him), what did he say in defence of the
officers condemned by the Coroner’s Jury, who, by signing the General
Inspection report relative to the ship Great Tasmania, chartered for these
troops, had deliberately asserted all that bad and poisonous dunghill refuse,
to be good and wholesome food?” My official friend replied that it was a
remarkable fact, that whereas some officers were only positively good, and
other officers only comparatively better, those particular officers were
superlatively the very best of all possible officers.
My hand and my heart fail me, in writing my record of this journey. The
spectacle of the soldiers in the hospital-beds of that Liverpool workhouse (a
very good workhouse, indeed, be it understood), was so shocking and so
shameful, that as an Englishman I blush to remember it. It would have been
simply unbearable at the time, but for the consideration and pity with which
they were soothed in their sufferings.
No punishment that our inefficient laws provide, is worthy of the name
when set against the guilt of this transaction. But, if the memory of it die out
unavenged, and if it do not result in the inexorable dismissal and disgrace of
those who are responsible for it, their escape will be infamous to the Gov¬
ernment (no matter of what party) that so neglects its duty, and infamous to
the nation that tamely suffers such intolerable wrong to be done in its name.
45

-- 49 of 568 --

From Specimen Days
WALT WHITMAN
Walt Whitman’s account of the 1863 Civil War battle of Chancellorsville
(part of his book Specimen Days) unquestionably has literary qualities.
Whitman (1819-92) shifts tenses, sputters out sentence fragments, tries
out metaphors and similes, and unpacks a series of rhetorical questions, all
to serve a central conceit—the difficulty of doing descriptive justice to
reality’s horror. (“What history, I say, can ever give—for who can know—
the mad, determin’d tussle of the armies . . . ?”)
But what makes the piece historically significant, and also gives intrigu¬
ing overtones to the author’s reiterated claims of narrative inadequacy, is
the fact that Whitman wasn’t there. At the time of the battle he was in
Washington, D.C., and he got his facts from the wounded soldiers he
tended as a hospital volunteer. As much as John Hersey in Hiroshima,
Whitman was practicing the art of journalistic re-creation, and he deserves
recognition as one of that genre’s true pioneers.
Historical footnote: the battle in Stephen Crane’s The Red Badge of
Courage was largely based on Chancellorsville as well.
A Night Battle, Over a Week Since
May 12.—There was part of the late battle at Chancellorsville, (second
Fredericksburgh,) a little over a week ago, Saturday, Saturday night and
Sunday, under Gen. Joe Hooker, I would like to give just a glimpse of—(a
moment’s look in a terrible storm at sea—of which a few suggestions are
enough, and full details impossible). The fighting had been very hot during
the day, and after an intermission the latter part, was resumed at night, and
kept up with furious energy till 3 o’clock in the morning. That afternoon
(Saturday) an attack sudden and strong by Stonewall Jackson had gain’d a
great advantage to the southern army, and broken our lines, entering us like
46

-- 50 of 568 --

WALT WHITMAN
a wedge, and leaving things in that position at dark. But Hooker at 11 at
night made a desperate push, drove the secesh forces back, restored his
original lines, and resumed his plans. This night scrimmage was very excit¬
ing, and afforded countless strange and fearful pictures. The fighting had
been general both at Chancellorsville and northeast at Fredericksburgh.
(We heard of some poor fighting, episodes, skedaddling on our part. I think
not of it. I think of the fierce bravery, the general rule.) One corps, the 6th,
Sedgewick’s, fights four dashing and bloody battles in thirty-six hours,
retreating in great jeopardy, losing largely but maintaining itself, fighting
with the sternest desperation under all circumstances, getting over the Rap¬
pahannock only by the skin of its teeth, yet getting over. It lost many, many
brave men, yet it took vengeance, ample vengeance.
But it was the tug of Saturday evening, and through the night and Sunday
morning, I wanted to make a special note of. It was largely in the woods, and
quite a general engagement. The night was very pleasant, at times the moon
shining out full and clear, all Nature so calm in itself, the early summer
grass so rich, and foliage of the trees—yet there the battle raging, and many
good fellows lying helpless, with new accessions to them, and every minute
amid the rattle of muskets and crash of cannon, (for there was an artillery
contest too,) the red life-blood oozing out from heads or trunks or limbs
upon that green and dew-cool grass. Patches of the woods take fire, and sev¬
eral of the wounded, unable to move, are consumed—quite large spaces are
swept over, burning the dead also—some of the men have their hair and
beards singed—some, burns on their faces and hands—other holes burnt in
their clothing. The flashes of fire from the cannon, the quick flaring flames
and smoke, and the immense roar—the musketry so general, the light nearly
bright enough for each side to see the other—the crashing, tramping of
men—the yelling—close quarters—we hear the secesh yells—our men
cheer loudly back, especially if Hooker is in sight—hand to hand conflicts,
each side stands up to it, brave, determin'd as demons, they often charge
upon us—a thousand deeds are done worth to write newer greater poems
on—and still the woods on fire—still many are not only scorch'd—too many,
unable to move, are burn'd to death.
Then the camps of the wounded—O heavens, what scene is this?—is this
indeed humanity—these butchers' shambles? There are several of them.
There they lie, in the largest, in an open space in the woods, from 200 to
300 poor fellows—the groans and screams—the odor of blood, mixed with
the fresh scent of the night, the grass, the trees—that slaughter-house! O
well is it their mothers, their sisters cannot see them—cannot conceive, and
never conceiv’d, these things. One man is shot by a shell, both in the arm
and leg—both are amputated—there lie the rejected members. Some have
their legs blown off—some bullets through the breast—some indescribably
horrid wounds in the face or head, all mutilated, sickening, torn, gouged
out—some in the abdomen—some mere boys—many rebels, badly hurt—
47

-- 51 of 568 --

THE ART OF FACT
they take their regular turns with the rest, just the same as any—the sur¬
geons use them just the same. Such is the camp of the wounded—such a
fragment, a reflection afar off of the bloody scene—while over all the clear,
large moon comes out at times softly, quietly shining. Amid the woods, that
scene of flitting souls—amid the crack and crash and yelling sounds—the
impalpable perfume of the woods—and yet the pungent, stifling smoke—
the radiance of the moon, looking from heaven at intervals so placid—the
sky so heavenly—the clear-obscure up there, those buoyant upper oceans—
a few large placid stars beyond, coming silently and languidly out, and then
disappearing—the melancholy, draperied night above, around. And there,
upon the roads, the fields, and in those woods, that contest, never one more
desperate in any age or land—both parties now in force—masses—no fancy
battle, no semi-play, but fierce and savage demons fighting there—courage
and scorn of death the rule, exceptions almost none.
What history, I say, can ever give—for who can know—the mad, deter¬
min’d tussle of the armies, in all their separate large and little squads—as
this—each steep’d from crown to toe in desperate, mortal purports? Who
know the conflict, hand-to-hand—the many conflicts in the dark, those
shadowy-tangled, flashing moonbeam’d woods—the writhing groups and
squads—the cries, the din, the cracking guns and pistols—the distant can¬
non—the cheers and calls and threats and awful music of the oaths—the
indescribable mix—the officers’ orders, persuasions, encouragements—the
devils fully rous’d in human hearts—the strong shout, Charge, men,
charge—the flash of the naked sword, and rolling flame and smoke? And still
the broken, clear and clouded heaven—and still again the moonlight pour¬
ing silvery soft its radiant patches over all. Who paint the scene, the sudden
partial panic of the afternoon, at dusk? Who paint the irrepressible advance
of the second division of the Third corps, under Hooker himself, suddenly
order’d up—those rapid-filing phantoms through the woods? Who show
what moves there in the shadows, fluid and firm—to save, (and it did save,)
the army’s name, perhaps the nation? as there the veterans hold the field.
(Brave Berry falls not yet—but death has mark’d him—soon he falls.)
48

-- 52 of 568 --

From If Christ Came to Chicago
w. T. STEAD
W. T. Stead (1849-1912) changed the face of British journalism as the edi¬
tor of an evening newspaper, the Pall Mall Gazette, in the 1880s. He broke
with traditional style by introducing bold type, eye-catching headlines, and
highly readable bylined articles. He also popularized the feature-interview,
personalizing the news with a foretaste of modern celebrity journalism,
and transcending the question-answer format with details of atmosphere
and descriptions of the interviewee s appearance and mannerisms.
Stead's innovations went beyond style. He launched civic and moral
crusades, most notably when Parliament seemed unwilling to raise the age
of sexual consent from thirteen to sixteen. To dramatize the widespread
traffic in young girls, Stead experimentally “purchased” a thirteen-year-old
from her mother and publicized the case as part of a sensational series:
“The Maiden Tribute of Modern Babylon.” Although he had no physical
contact with the girl, Stead was prosecuted and served two months in jail.
But he had persuaded Parliament to act.
When Matthew Arnold referred to Stead’s “new journalism” in 1887, he
criticized its appeals to mass taste and its often cavalier treatment of fact.
Ironically, as Stead became more interested in international issues, he was
forced out at the Pall Mall Gazette; in 1890 he assumed control of a
monthly magazine, Review of Reviews. Stead remained a crusader, and dur¬
ing an 1893 visit to Chicago he declared the city an ideal test site for pub¬
lic reform.
As he looked at Chicago’s labor strife, police corruption, and juxtaposi¬
tion of great wealth and great squalor, Stead described the city as “a pretty
fair section of mankind”—but with the fresh potential of the New World,
especially in its “citizens full of a boundless elan.” If Christ Came to
Chicago (1894) takes its title from a James Russell Lowell poem. The book
was too pragmatic to serve as a religious tract (it proposed decent saloons
and well-managed brothels), and its editorial fervor was leavened by many
storytelling touches, as in the portrayal of Maggie Darling. Stead’s charac-
49

-- 53 of 568 --

THE ART OF FACT
terization overcomes sentimentality in sharply realized scenes and in Mag¬
gie’s own profane anger.
In 1892 Stead wrote a short story about the sinking of an “unsinkable”
ocean liner. Twenty years later he was a passenger on the Titanic. When
last seen, Stead was standing calmly on the deck after giving up his life
jacket to another.
—K. K.
. . . Sure enough, the next day there was a new patrolman on the beat, and
the girls were more cautious in their hustling. The routine of the day at
Madame Hastings was monotonous enough. In the morning, just before 12,
the colored girl served cocktails to each of the women before they got up.
After they dressed, they took another refresher, usually absinthe. At break¬
fast they had wine. Then the day’s work began. The girls sat in couples at the
windows, each keeping watch in the opposite direction. If a man passed they
would rap at the window and beckon him to come in. If a policeman
appeared, even if it were their fat friend, the curtains would be drawn and all
trace of hustling would disappear. But before the officer was out of sight the
girls would be there again. They went on duty fifteen minutes at a time.
Every quarter of an hour they were relieved, until dinner time. At five they
dined, and then the evening’s business began, with more drinking at inter¬
vals, all night through, to the accompaniment of piano playing with occa¬
sional step-dancing, and adjournments more or less frequent, as customers
were more or less plentiful. About four or five in the morning, when they
were all more or less loaded with drink, they would close the doors and go to
sleep. Next day it would begin again, the same dull round of drink and hus¬
tling, debauch and drink. A dismal, dreary, monotonous existence broken
only by quarreling and the constant excitement supplied by the police.
For a day or two the girls were discreet, but finding no harm came they
relapsed a little, and “Redhead,” the new policeman, saw them hustling at
the window. So a warrant was sworn out at the police station and at five
o’clock at night a posse of nine policemen sallied forth to “pull” Mary Hast¬
ings. The pulling of a house of this description is one of the favorite enter¬
tainments of the district. It attracts the floating and resident population as
much as a first-class funeral draws the crowd in a country town. All unsus¬
pecting the fate in store for them, the girls were preparing to sit down to din¬
ner. Maggie was mixing the absinthe when the bell rang. Bohemian
Mary—for here as elsewhere in Chicago, there are people of all nationalities
under heaven—opened the door. A policeman placed his foot so the door
could not be closed in his face and demanded Madame. When she came he
produced his warrant and eight other officers filed into the house. Every
door was guarded. There was no escape. Had there been but a few minutes
warning the girls could have fled down the trap doors prepared for such an
50

-- 54 of 568 --

W. T. STEAD
event, which led to the cellar from whence they could escape to a friendly
saloon which frequently received them into its hospitable shelter. But it was
too sudden. “Oh-!” said Maggie, running up stairs, “we re pulled!”
“Yes,” said the officer, “and you’d better dress yourselves and make ready to
go off to the station.”
As Maggie was hastily putting on her dress one of the officers who had fol¬
lowed her to her bed-room touched her on the shoulder. “Would you mind
making a date with me?” he said. The girl’s appearance pleased him. “And
though he was on pleasure bent,” like John Gilpin, “he had a frugal mind.”
Policemen get their women cheap, and when you are arresting a woman she
cannot haggle about terms. So Maggie said, “For sure.” “Well,” he said, “I am
on Clark, can I meet you there some day next week?” “Certainly,” she replied,
“send me a message making the date and it will be all right.”
By this time they were getting ready to start. Madame had thrust a roll of
300 dollar bills into her stocking. The girls, not less mindful of contingen¬
cies, had stuffed into their stockings small bottles of whisky and cigarettes
and made ready to accompany their captors. There were six altogether. The
housekeeper, the cook and one of the girls, a newcomer who was passed off
as a servant, remained behind. Madame and her family of five stepped out
amid the curious crowd which watched for the patrol wagon. “It makes a girl
feel cheap,” said Maggie, “let’s start for the station.” No sooner said than
done. Bohemian Mary set off at a run followed by her cursing, panting cus¬
todian; then came the other girls, while Madame brought up the rear. It was
no new thing to her. The house had been pulled only two months before and
it was all in the day’s work.
When they arrived at the police station they were taken down stairs and
locked up all together in one of the iron barred cells. The policeman found a
bottle of wine in a French girl’s stocking and drank its contents to the
immense indignation of its owner, who gave him in her own vocabulary
“blue blazes.” Fie only looked and laughed. “Here’s to your health, Frenchie!”
said the policeman as he drank the last drop. Madame in the meantime had
dispatched a trusty messenger for a bondsman and as soon as he arrived she
was bailed out. The girls in the cell amused themselves with shouting and
singing and cursing and drinking, while Maggie and another tested their
agility by climbing like monkeys up the iron bars of their grated door.
It was more like a picnic than an imprisonment. They had drink and cig¬
arettes and company. They were as noisy and more lively and profane than if
they had been at home.
In about an hour Madame bailed them all out, putting up $10 a head for
their punctual appearance at the police court on Monday morning. Then
the half dozen, more drunk than when they were pulled sallied out in tri¬
umph and resumed business as usual in the old premises as if nothing had
happened.
Five or six hours afterwards, about midnight, I made Maggie Darling’s
51

-- 55 of 568 --

THE ART OF FACT
acquaintance. I had been around several of the houses asking their keepers
and their inmates to attend my meeting at the Central Music Hall the fol¬
lowing day. A strange pilgrimage that was from house to house, to discuss
what Christ would think of it, with landladies whose painted damsels in
undress, were lounging all around! At last, well on to midnight, I came to
Madame Hastings. The excitement of the “pulling” was still visible;
Madame was indignant. She knew who it was that had put the “cops” on to
her and she cursed them accordingly. Maggie was flushed and somewhat
forward; both her eyes were blacked, the result of a fight with a French
inmate of the house.
“I don’t want anything,’’ I said to Maggie. “Why can you not talk decently
once in a while? Sit down and let us have a good talk.”
Maggie looked at me half incredulously and then sat down.
“I want you to come to my meeting tomorrow night,” I said, “at Central
Music Hall.”
“Yes,” she said, “what kind of a meeting is it?”
“Oh, quite a new kind of meeting,” I answered. “I am to speak on what
Christ would think of all this, and I want you to know it all, to come to the
meeting.”
Maggie became serious; a dreamy look came over her face.
Then she said, “Oh, Christ! He’s all right. It’s the other ones, that’s the
devil.” Then she stopped. “It’s no use,” she added, shortly.
“What’s no use?” I asked, and after a time she told me the story which I
repeated in brief at Central Music Hall next day.
It was a grim story; commonplace enough, and yet as tragic as life, that
was told to me at midnight in that tawdry parlor. The old Jezebel flitted in
and out superintending her business; the jingling piano was going in the
next room where the girls were dancing, and the air was full of the reek of
beer and tobacco. Maggie spoke soberly, in an undertone so that Madame
might not hear what she was saying. Her narrative, which she told without
any pretense or without any appeal for sympathy or for help, seemed a
microcosm of the history of the human race. The whole of the story was
there; from the Fall to the Redemption; from the Redemption to the Apos-
tacy of the church, and the blighting of the hopes of mankind. I give it here
as a page, soiled and grimy it may be, but nevertheless a veritable page torn
from the book of life. Maggie Darling is a human document in which is
recorded the ruin of one of the least of those of the brethren of Christ. It
illustrates many things in our social organization, from the ruthless sacrifice
of childhood, due to the lack of factory laws, to the murderous brutality of
conventional Christianity, aping the morality without the heart of its Lord.
“No,” said Maggie coldly. “It’s no use! Don’t commence no religion on
me. I’ve had enough already. Are you a Catholic?”
“Why?” I asked. “No, I am not a Catholic.”
“I’m glad,” she said, “you’re not a Catholic. I have no use for Catholics.
52

-- 56 of 568 --

W. T. STEAD
Least of all for Irish Catholics. I will never go near any of them any more,
and if I could do them any harm, I would travel a thousand miles to do it.”
Maggie was excited and troubled. Something in the past seemed to
harass her, and her language was more vigorous than can be quoted here.
After a little she became more restrained, and by degrees I had her whole
history.
She was born of Irish-American parents, in Boston, in 1870. Her father
was a carpenter by trade. Her mother died when Maggie was a mere child.
Shortly after her death the family crossed the continent to California, where
her father married again. He was a drunkard, a gambler and a violent tem¬
pered man, much given to drinking, and inclined to treat his children with
great brutality. Maggie, after spending a year or two in a convent school in
San Francisco, left before she had learned either to read or to write, and
began to make her own living, at nine years of age. She was employed in a
shoe factory, where she made from $4.50 to $7 a week at piece work. There
were several children of only seven years of age in the factory. These infants
were employed in picking shavings. They started work at six o'clock in the
morning, had half an hour for dinner, and were dismissed at five. At the fac¬
tory Maggie learned to read out of the newspapers, by the aid of her com¬
panions, and when she was eleven was sufficiently smart to obtain a
situation as companion and reader to an old lady, who was an invalid, at $ 15
a month and her board. The place was comfortable. She remained there
until she was eighteen.
From that situation she went as chambermaid to a private family in
Golden Gate Avenue. She was eighteen, full of vigor and gaiety. She was a
brunette with long dark hair, a lively disposition, and with all the charming
audacity and confidence of inexperience. She fell in love. The man was older
than she and for a time she was as happy as most young people in their first
dream. Of course she was going to be married. If only the marriage day
would come! But there are twenty-four hours in every day, and seven days in
every week. Her betrothed, not less impatient, hinted that after all they were
already united, why could they not anticipate the ceremony. Did she not
trust him? He swore that it was all right, that everybody did it and they
would be so much more to each other.
But why repeat the oft told story? At first Maggie would not listen to the
suggestion. But after a time when he pressed her and upbraided her and
declared that she could not love him if she did not trust him, she went the
way of many thousands, only to wake as they have done with the soft illusion
dissipated by the terrible reality of motherhood drawing near, with no hus¬
band to be a father to her child. When she told him of her condition, he said
that it was all right; they must get married directly. If she would leave her
place and meet him next day, at the corner of a certain street, he would take
her to a church and they would be married. In all trusting innocence, relying
upon his word, she gave up her situation, put up such things as she could
53

-- 57 of 568 --

THE ART OF FACT
carry and went next day to the trysting place. Of course the man was not
there. After waiting till heartsick she went to make inquiries; she soon dis¬
covered the fatal truth. Her lover was a married man, and he had skipped
the town followed by the brother of another of his victims.
Imagine her position! She had exactly fifteen cents in her pocket. If she
had gone home her father, fierce and irascible as he usually was, would have
thought little of killing the daughter who had brought disgrace upon the fam¬
ily. She dared not return to her old situation which she had left so suddenly.
She had no character from her mistress and no references. Besides in six
months she would be confined. What was she to do?
Her position is one in which some thousands of young women find them¬
selves all over the world at this very moment. She was in the position of Eve
after she had eaten the forbidden fruit and had been cast out of the Garden
of Eden. It is a modern version of the Fall, and as the Fall led down to
destruction, so it was with Maggie Darling. She seemed to be shut up to sin.
She wandered about the town seeking work. Finding none all that day she
walked about in the evening. She kept walking aimlessly on and on, until
night came and she was afraid. When it was quite dark and she found a
quiet corner she crouched upon a doorstep and tried to sleep. What was she
to do? She was lonely and miserable; every month her trouble would grow
worse. Where could she hide? She dozed off, only to awaken with a start. No
one was near; she tried to sleep again. Then she got up and walked a little
and rested again. When morning came she was tired out and wretched.
Then she remembered the address of a girl she knew who was living in the
neighborhood. She hunted her up and was made welcome. But her friend
had no money. For one night she sheltered her, but all her efforts to find
work were in vain.
What was to be done? On the third day she and her friend met a man who
asked them if they wanted a job. They answered eagerly, yes. He gave them
the address of a lady who he thought could give them something to do. They
went there and found it was a house of ill-fame. The woman took them in
and told them they might stay. Maggie hesitated. But what was she to do?
She had lost her character and her place, and she had no friends. Here she
could at least get food and shelter, and remain till her baby was born. It
seemed as if she were driven to it. She said to herself that she could not help
it, and so it came to pass that Maggie came upon the town.
Two years she remained there, making the best of it. Her baby fortunately
died soon after it was born, and she continued to tread the cinder path of sin
alone. This went on for three years, and then there dawned upon her dark¬
ened life a real manifestation of redeeming love. One day when she had a fit
of the blues, a young man came into the house. He was very young, not
more than twenty. Something in her appearance attracted him, and when
they were alone he spoke to her so kindly that she marveled. She told him
how wretched she was, and he, treating her as if she were his own sister,
54

-- 58 of 568 --

W. T. STEAD
encouraged her to hope for release. “Take this/' he said, as he left her, giving
her five dollars. “Save up all you can until you can pay off your debts and
then we will get you out of this.”
He came again, and yet again, always treating her in the same brotherly
fashion, giving her five dollars every time, and never asking anything in
return. After she had saved up sufficient store to pay off that debt to the
landlady, which hangs like a millstone round the neck of the unfortunate,
her young friend told her that he had talked to his mother and his sister, and
that as soon as she was ready they would be delighted to take her into their
home until such time as they could find her a situation. Full of delight at the
unexpected deliverance, Maggie made haste to leave. The young man's
mother was as good as her word. In that home she found a warm welcome,
and a safe retreat. Maggie made great efforts to break off the habit of swear¬
ing, and although she every now and then would make a bad break, she
made such progress that at length it was deemed safe and prudent to let her
take a place as a general servant. The short stay in that Christian home had
been to her as a glimpse into an opening paradise. Hope sprang up once
more in the girl's breast. She would be an honest woman once again. Thus,
as we have seen her reproduce the Fall, so we see the blessed work of the
Redeemer. Now we have to see the way in which His people, “the other
ones,” as she called them, shuddering, fulfilled their trust.
Maggie went to a situation in Oakland, Alameda Co., Cal. Her new mis¬
tress was a Mrs. McD-, an Irish Catholic of very devout disposition. She
was general servant at $10 a month. She worked hard, and gave every satis¬
faction. Even the habit of profanity seemed to have been conquered. Grad¬
ually the memory of her past life with its hideous concomitants was
becoming faint and dim, when suddenly the past was brought back to her
with a shock. She was serving at table when she suddenly recognized in one
of the guests a man who had been a customer in the old house. She felt as
if she were going to drop dead when she recognized him, but she said noth¬
ing. The “gentleman,” however, was not so reticent. “Where did you get that
girl from?” he asked Mr. McD-. “Get her,” said Mr. McD-; “why,
she's a servant in our house.” “Servant,” sneered her guest; “I know her. She
is a-from San Francisco.”
How eternally true are Lowell's lines:
Grim-hearted world, that look'st with Levite eyes
On those poor fallen by too much faith in man,
She that upon thy freezing threshold lies,
Starved to more sinning by thy savage ban,
Seeking that refuge because foulest vice,
More God-like than thy virtue is, whose span
Shuts out the wretched only, is more free
To enter Heaven than thou wilt ever be!
55

-- 59 of 568 --

THE ART OF FACT
Thou wilt not let her wash thy dainty feet
With such salt things as tears, or with rude hair
Dry them, soft Pharisee, that sitt’st at meat
With him who made her such, and speak’st him fair,
Leaving Gods wandering lamb the while to bleat
Unheeded, shivering in the pitiless air:
Thou hast made prisoned virtue show more wan
And haggard than a vice to look upon.
But in this case it was even worse. The lamb which had sought shelter
was driven back into the wilderness.
Mr. McD-would not believe it, but said that he would tell his wife.
Mrs. McD-at once sent for Maggie. “If only I d been cute/’ said she to
me when telling the story, “I would have denied it, and they would have
believed me. But I thought I had broken with all that, and that I had to tell
the truth. So I owned up and said yes, it was true, I had been so, but that
I had reformed, and had left all that kind of life. But the old woman, d-
her! she would listen to nothing. ‘Faith, she would not have the disgrace of
having a-in her house!’ that was all she said.”
“Have you anything against me?” said Maggie. “Have I not done your
work for you ever since I came?”
“No,” was the reply, “I have nothing against you, but I cannot have a per¬
son of your character in my house. You must go.’’
Maggie implored her to give her a chance. “You are a Catholic,” she said,
“will you not give me a helping hand?”
“No,” was the inexorable reply. “That does not matter. I cannot have a
-in my house.”
Feeling as if she were sinking in deep water, Maggie fell on her knees sob¬
bing bitterly and begged her for the love of God to have mercy on her and at
least to give her a recommendation so that she might get another place.
It was no use. “I cannot do that, for if anything went wrong I would be to
blame for it.”
“Well then,” said Maggie, “at least give me a line saying that for the four
months I had been here I have worked to your satisfaction.”
“No,” she said.
“The old hound!” exclaimed Maggie to me. “My God, if ever I get the
chance I’ll knife the old she devil. Yes, if I swing for it. What does it matter?
She’s blasted my life. When I saw it was all no use, I lost all heart and all
hope and I gave up there and then. There’s no hope for such as me. No, I
had my chance and she spoiled it, God d-n her for a blasted old hyp¬
ocrite. And now it is no use. No use, never any more. I have taken dope, I
drink. I’m lost. I’m only a-. I shall never be anything else. I’m far
worse than ever I was and am going to the devil as fast as I can. It’s no use.
But-me to blue blazes if ever I come within a thousand miles
56

-- 60 of 568 --

W. T. STEAD
of that old fiend if I don’t knife her if I swing for it. When I think what I
might have been but for her! Oh, Christ!” she cried, “What have they done
with my life?”
What indeed? After the Fall the Redemption, after the Redemption the
Apostacy, and now as the result, one of
The images ye have made of Me!
57

-- 61 of 568 --

When Man Falls, a Crowd Gathers
STEPHEN CRANE
In the late nineteenth century and on into the twentieth, curiosity about
the lives of the poor, and the conviction that traditional methods of investi¬
gation were inadequate, frequently led journalists to put on tattered
clothes and try to experience how the other half lived. Whether changing
one s point of view is as easy as changing one’s wardrobe is debatable, but
this approach did lead to some wonderful writing.
Stephen Crane’s venture into the genre, published in the New York
Press in 1894, when Crane (1871-1900) was a freelancer and had just
completed the manuscript for The Red Badge of Courage, is less concerned
with empathy or expose than with language. Crane’s decision to cast him¬
self in the third person, and his use of epithets (“the seedy man,’’ "the
assassin’’) instead of actual names, the incessant visual imagery, the fre¬
quent similes and cunning adjectives (“a schooner of dark and portentous
beer ”)—all mark “An Experiment in Misery’’ as a piece of writing that
presses up against the border separating journalism from fiction. (In revis¬
ing the piece for book publication in 1898—the version used here—Crane
emphasized this by omitting an introduction explaining his project and a
conclusion summing up what he had learned.)
“When Man Falls, a Crowd Gathers” is also from 1894 and is also a
Cranean reworking of a traditional journalistic form, in this case the slice-
of-life sketch. In pitilessly describing a rather unremarkable course of
events—a man’s epileptic fit, the gathering of a crowd of onlookers, the
victim’s seeming recovery—Crane presents a world in which a bloodthirsty
curiosity has replaced any vestige of sympathy or dignity. (The omission of
the indefinite article before "Man” in the title underscores this view.) Left
unaddressed is the complicity of the author in all this. He was, after all,
part of the crowd. And aren’t we, his readers, crowding around the body
and asking “What’s the matter?” ourselves?
—B.Y.
58

-- 62 of 568 --

STEPHEN CRANE
C3sO
A man and a boy were trudging slowly along an East-Side street. It was
nearly six o’clock in the evening and this street, which led to one of the East
River ferries, was crowded with laborers, shop men and shop women, hurry¬
ing to their dinners. The store windows were a-glare.
The man and the boy conversed in Italian, mumbling the soft syllables
and making little quick egotistical gestures. They walked with the lumbering
peasant’s gait, slowly, and blinking their black eyes at the passing show of
the street.
Suddenly the man wavered on his limbs and glared bewildered and help¬
less as if some blinding light had flashed before his vision; then he swayed
like a drunken man and fell. The boy grasped his companion’s arm franti¬
cally and made an attempt to support him so that the limp form slid to the
side-walk with an easy motion as a body sinks in the sea. The boy screamed.
Instantly, from all directions people turned their gaze upon the prone fig¬
ure. In a moment there was a dodging, pushing, peering group about the
man. A volley of questions, replies, speculations flew to and fro above all the
bobbing heads.
“What’s th’ matter? What’s th’ matter?’’
“Oh, a jag, I guess!”
“Nit; he’s got a fit!”
“What’s th’ matter? What’s th’ matter?”
Two streams of people coming from different directions met at this point
to form a crowd. Others came from across the street.
Down under their feet, almost lost under this throng, lay the man, hidden
in the shadows caused by their forms which in fact barely allowed a particle
of light to pass between them. Those in the foremost rank bended down,
shouldering each other, eager, anxious to see everything. Others behind
them crowded savagely for a place like starving men fighting for bread.
Always, the question could be heard flying in the air. “What’s the matter?”
Some, near to the body and perhaps feeling the danger of being forced over
upon it, twisted their heads and protested violently to those unheeding ones
who were scuffling in the rear. “Say, quit yer shovin’, can’t yeh? What d’ yeh
want, anyhow? Quit!”
A man back in the crowd suddenly said: “Say, young feller, you’re a peach
wid dose feet o’ yours. Keep off me!”
Another voice said: “Well, dat’s all right-”
The boy who had been walking with the man who fell was standing help¬
lessly, a terrified look in his eyes. He held the man’s hand. Sometimes he
gave it a little jerk that was at once an appeal, a reproach, a caution. And,
withal, it was a timid calling to the limp and passive figure as if he half
expected to arouse it from its coma with a pleading touch of his fingers.
59

-- 63 of 568 --

THE ART OF FACT
Occasionally, he looked about him with swift glances of indefinite hope, as
if assistance might come from the clouds. The men near him questioned
him, but he did not seem to understand. He answered them “Yes” or “No,”
blindly, with no apparent comprehension of their language. They frequently
jostled him until he was obliged to put his hand upon the breast of the body
to maintain his balance.
Those that were nearest to the man upon the side-walk at first saw his
body go through a singular contortion. It was as if an invisible hand had
reached up from the earth and had seized him by the hair. He seemed
dragged slowly, relentlessly backward, while his body stiffened convulsively,
his hands clenched, and his arms swung rigidly upward. A slight froth was
upon his chin. Through his pallid half-closed lids could be seen the steel-
colored gleam of his eyes that were turned toward all the bending, swaying
faces and in this inanimate thing upon the pave burned threateningly, dan¬
gerously, shining with a mystic light, as a corpse might glare at those live
ones who seemed about to trample it under foot.
As for the men near, they hung back, appearing as if they expected it to
spring erect and clutch at them. Their eyes however were held in a spell of
fascination. They seemed scarcely to breathe. They were contemplating a
depth into which a human being had sunk and the marvel of this mystery of
life or death held them chained. Occasionally from the rear, a man came
thrusting his way impetuously, satisfied that there was a horror to be seen
and apparently insane to get a view of it. Less curious persons swore at these
men when they trod upon their toes.
The loaded street-cars jingled past this scene in endless parade. Occa¬
sionally, from where the elevated railroad crossed the street there came a
rhythmical roar, suddenly begun and suddenly ended. Over the heads of the
crowd hung an immovable canvas sign. “Regular dinner twenty cents.”
After the first spasm of curiosity had passed away, there were those in the
crowd who began to consider ways to help. A voice called: “Rub his wrists.”
The boy and some one on the other side of the man began to rub his wrists
and slap his palms, but still the body lay inert, rigid. When a hand was
dropped the arm fell like a stick. A tall German suddenly appeared and res¬
olutely began to push the crowd back. “Get back there—get back,” he con¬
tinually repeated as he pushed them. He had psychological authority over
this throng; they obeyed him. He and another knelt by the man in the dark¬
ness and loosened his shirt at the throat. Once they struck a match and held
it close to the man s face. This livid visage suddenly appearing under their
feet in the light of the match's yellow glare, made the throng shudder. Half-
articulate exclamations could be heard. There were men who nearly created
a battle in the madness of their desire to see the thing.
Meanwhile others with magnificent passions for abstract statistical infor¬
mation were questioning the boy. “Whats his name?” “Where does he live?”
Then a policeman appeared. The first part of the little play had gone on
60

-- 64 of 568 --

STEPHEN CRANE
without his assistance but now he came swiftly, his helmet towering above
the multitude of black derbys and shading that confident, self-reliant police
face. He charged the crowd as if he were a squadron of Irish lancers. The
people fairly withered before this onslaught. He shouted: “Come, make way
there! Make way!” He was evidently a man whose life was half-pestered out
of him by the inhabitants of the city who were sufficiently unreasonable and
stupid as to insist on being in the streets. His was the rage of a placid cow,
who wishes to lead a life of tranquillity, but who is eternally besieged by flies
that hover in clouds.
When he arrived at the centre of the crowd he first demanded threaten¬
ingly: “Well, what’s th’ matter here?” And then when he saw that human bit
of wreckage at the bottom of the sea of men he said to it: “Come, git up outa
that! Git outa here!”
Whereupon hands were raised in the crowd and a volley of decorated
information was blazed at the officer.
“Ah, he’s got a fit! Can’t yeh see!”
“He’s got a fit!”
“He’s sick!”
“What th’ ell yeh doin’? Leave m be!”
The policeman menaced with a glance the crowd from whose safe inte¬
rior the defiant voices had emerged.
A doctor had come. He and the policeman bended down at the man’s
side. Occasionally the officer upreared to create room. The crowd fell away
before his threats, his admonitions, his sarcastic questions and before the
sweep of those two huge buckskin gloves.
At last, the peering ones saw the man on the side-walk begin to breathe
heavily, with the strain of overtaxed machinery, as if he had just come to the
surface from some deep water. He uttered a low cry in his foreign tongue. It
was a babyish squeal or like the sad wail of a little storm-tossed kitten. As
this cry went forth to all those eager ears the jostling and crowding recom¬
menced until the doctor was obliged to yell warningly a dozen times. The
policeman had gone to send an ambulance call.
When a man struck another match and in its meagre light the doctor felt
the skull of the prostrate one to discover if any wound or fracture had been
caused by his fall to the stone side-walk, the crowd pressed and crushed
again. It was as if they fully anticipated a sight of blood in the gleam of the
match and they scrambled and dodged for positions. The policeman
returned and fought with them. The doctor looked up frequently to scold at
them and to sharply demand more space.
At last out of the golden haze made by the lamps far up the street, there
came the sound of a gong beaten rapidly, impatiently. A monstrous truck
loaded to the sky with barrels scurried to one side with marvelous agility.
And then the black ambulance with its red light, its galloping horse, its dull
gleam of lettering and bright shine of gong clattered into view. A young man,
61

-- 65 of 568 --

THE ART OF FACT
as imperturbable always as if he were going to a picnic, sat thoughtfully
upon the rear seat.
When they picked up the limp body, from which came little moans and
howls, the crowd almost turned into a mob, a silent mob, each member of
which struggled for one thing. Afterward some resumed their ways with an
air of relief, as if they themselves had been in pain and were at last recov¬
ered. Others still continued to stare at the ambulance on its banging, clang¬
ing return journey until it vanished into the golden haze. It was as if they had
been cheated. Their eyes expressed discontent at this curtain which had
been rung down in the midst of the drama. And this impenetrable fabric
suddenly intervening between a suffering creature and their curiosity,
seemed to appear to them as an injustice.
62

-- 66 of 568 --

An Experiment in Misery
STEPHEN CRANE
It was late at night, and a fine rain was swirling softly down, causing the
pavements to glisten with hue of steel and blue and yellow in the rays of the
innumerable lights. A youth was trudging slowly, without enthusiasm, with
his hands buried deep in his trousers’ pockets, toward the downtown places
where beds can be hired for coppers. He was clothed in an aged and tattered
suit, and his derby was a marvel of dust-covered crown and torn rim. He was
going forth to eat as the wanderer may eat, and sleep as the homeless sleep.
By the time he had reached City Hall Park he was so completely plastered
with yells of “bum” and “hobo,” and with various unholy epithets that small
boys had applied to him at intervals, that he was in a state of the most pro¬
found dejection. The sifting rain saturated the old velvet collar of his over¬
coat, and as the wet cloth pressed against his neck, he felt that there no
longer could be pleasure in life. He looked about him searching for an out¬
cast of highest degree that the two might share miseries. But the lights
threw a quivering glare over rows and circles of deserted benches that glis¬
tened damply, showing patches of wet sod behind them. It seemed that their
usual freights had fled on this night to better things. There were only squads
of well-dressed Brooklyn people who swarmed toward the Bridge.
The young man loitered about for a time and then went shuffling off
down Park Row. In the sudden descent in style of the dress of the crowd he
felt relief, and as if he were at last in his own country. He began to see tat¬
ters that matched his tatters. In Chatham Square there were aimless men
strewn in front of saloons and lodging houses, standing sadly, patiently,
reminding one vaguely of the attitudes of chickens in a storm. He aligned
himself with these men, and turned slowly to occupy himself with the flow¬
ing life of the great street.
Through the mists of the cold and storming night, the cable cars went in
silent procession, great affairs shining with red and brass, moving with for¬
midable power, calm and irresistible, dangerful and gloomy, breaking silence
only by the loud fierce cry of the gong. Two rivers of people swarmed along
63

-- 67 of 568 --

THE ART OF FACT
the side-walks, spattered with black mud, which made each shoe leave a
scar-like impression. Overhead elevated trains with a shrill grinding of the
wheels stopped at the station, which upon its leg-like pillars seemed to
resemble some monstrous kind of crab squatting over the street. The quick
fat puffings of the engines could be heard. Down an alley there were sombre
curtains of purple and black, on which street lamps dully glittered like
embroidered flowers.
A saloon stood with a voracious air on a corner. A sign leaning against the
front of the doorpost announced: “Free hot soup to-night.” The swing doors
snapping to and fro like ravenous lips, made gratified smacks as the saloon
gorged itself with plump men, eating with astounding and endless appetite,
smiling in some indescribable manner as the men came from all directions
like sacrifices to a heathenish superstition.
Caught by the delectable sign, the young man allowed himself to be swal¬
lowed. A bartender placed a schooner of dark and portentous beer on the
bar. Its monumental form upreared until the froth a-top was above the
crown of the young mans brown derby.
“Soup over there, gents,” said the bartender, affably. A little yellow man in
rags and the youth grasped their schooners and went with speed toward a
lunch counter, where a man with oily but imposing whiskers ladled genially
from a kettle until he had furnished his two mendicants with a soup that was
steaming hot and in which there were little floating suggestions of chicken.
The young man, sipping his broth, felt the cordiality expressed by the
warmth of the mixture, and he beamed at the man with oily but imposing
whiskers, who was presiding like a priest behind an altar. “Have some more,
gents?” he inquired of the two sorry figures before him. The little yellow
man accepted with a swift gesture, but the youth shook his head and went
out, following a man whose wondrous seediness promised that he would
have a knowledge of cheap lodging houses.
On the side-walk he accosted the seedy man. “Say, do you know a cheap
place t’ sleep?”
The other hesitated for a time, gazing sideways. Finally he nodded in
the direction of up the street. “I sleep up there,” he said, “when IVe got th’
• ))
price-
“How much?”
“Ten cents.”
The young man shook his head dolefully. “That s too rich for me.”
At that moment there approached the two a reeling man in strange gar¬
ments. His head was a fuddle of bushy hair and whiskers from which his
eyes peered with a guilty slant. In a close scrutiny it was possible to distin¬
guish the cruel lines of a mouth, which looked as if its lips had just closed
with satisfaction over some tender and piteous morsel. He appeared like an
assassin steeped in crimes performed awkwardly.
But at this time his voice was tuned to the coaxing key of an affectionate
64

-- 68 of 568 --

STEPHEN CRANE
puppy. He looked at the men with wheedling eyes and began to sing a little
melody for charity.
"Say, gents, can’t yeh give a poor feller a couple of cents t’ git a bed. I got
five an I gits anudder two I gits me a bed. Now, on th’ square, gents, can’t yeh
jest gimme two cents t’ git a bed. Now, yeh know how a respecter’ble gen-
tlem’n feels when he’s down on his luck an’ I —”
The seedy man, staring with imperturbable countenance at a train which
clattered overhead, interrupted in an expressionless voice: "Ah, go t’ h-!”
But the youth spoke to the prayerful assassin in tones of astonishment
and inquiry. “Say, you must be crazy! Why don’t yeh strike somebody that
looks as if they had money?’’
The assassin, tottering about on his uncertain legs, and at intervals
brushing imaginary obstacles from before his nose, entered into a long
explanation of the psychology of the situation. It was so profound that it was
unintelligible.
When he had exhausted the subject the young man said to him: “Let’s see
th’ five cents.”
The assassin wore an expression of drunken woe at this sentence, filled
with suspicion of him. With a deeply pained air he began to fumble in his
clothing, his red hands trembling. Presently he announced in a voice of bit¬
ter grief, as if he had been betrayed: "There’s on’y four.”
"Four,” said the young man thoughtfully. "Well, look-a-here, I’m a stranger
here, an’ if ye’ll steer me to your cheap joint I’ll find the other three.”
The assassin’s countenance became instantly radiant with joy. His
whiskers quivered with the wealth of his alleged emotions. He seized the
young man’s hand in a transport of delight and friendliness.
"B’gawd,” he cried, "if ye’ll do that, b’gawd, I’d say yeh was a damned good
feller, I would, an’ I’d remember yeh all m’ life, I would, b’gawd, an’ if I ever
got a chance I’d return th’ compliment”—he spoke with drunken dignity—
"b’gawd, I’d treat yeh white, I would, an’ I’d alius remember yeh —”
The young man drew back, looking at the assassin coldly. "Oh, that’s all
right,” he said. "You show me th’joint — that’s all you’ve got t’ do.”
The assassin, gesticulating gratitude, led the young man along a dark
street. Finally he stopped before a little dusty door. He raised his hand
impressively. "Look-a-here,” he said, and there was a thrill of deep and
ancient wisdom upon his face, "I’ve brought yeh here, an’ that’s my part,
ain’t it? If th’ place don’t suit yeh yeh needn’t git mad at me, need yeh? There
won’t be no bad feelin’, will there?”
"No,” said the young man.
The assassin waved his arm tragically and led the march up the steep
stairway. On the way the young man furnished the assassin with three pen¬
nies. At the top a man with benevolent spectacles looked at them through a
hole in the board. He collected their money, wrote some names on a register,
and speedily was leading the two men along a gloom shrouded corridor.
65

-- 69 of 568 --

THE ART OF FACT
Shortly after the beginning of this journey the young man felt his liver
turn white, for from the dark and secret places of the building there sud¬
denly came to his nostrils strange and unspeakable odors that assailed him
like malignant diseases with wings. They seemed to be from human bodies
closely packed in dens; the exhalations from a hundred pairs of reeking lips;
the fumes from a thousand bygone debauches; the expression of a thousand
present miseries.
A man, naked save for a little snuff colored undershirt, was parading
sleepily along the corridor. He rubbed his eyes, and, giving vent to a prodi¬
gious yawn, demanded to be told the time.
“Half past one.”
The man yawned again. He opened a door, and for a moment his form
was outlined against a black, opaque interior. To this door came the three
men, and as it was again opened the unholy odors rushed out like released
fiends, so that the young man was obliged to struggle as against an overpow¬
ering wind.
It was some time before the youth s eyes were good in the intense gloom
within, but the man with benevolent spectacles led him skillfully, pausing but
a moment to deposit the limp assassin upon a cot. He took the youth to a cot
that lay tranquilly by the window, and, showing him a tall locker for clothes
that stood near the head with the ominous air of a tombstone, left him.
The youth sat on his cot and peered about him. There was a gas jet in a
distant part of the room that burned a small flickering orange-hued flame. It
caused vast masses of tumbled shadows in all parts of the place, save where,
immediately about it, there was a little gray haze. As the young man’s eyes
became used to the darkness he could see upon the cots that thickly littered
the floor the forms of men sprawled out, lying in death-like silence or heav¬
ing and snoring with tremendous effort, like stabbed fish.
The youth locked his derby and his shoes in the mummy case near him
and then lay down with his old and familiar coat around his shoulders. A
blanket he handled gingerly, drawing it over part of the coat. The cot was
leather covered and cold as melting snow. The youth was obliged to shiver
for some time on this affair, which was like a slab. Presently, however, his
chill gave him peace, and during this period of leisure from it he turned his
head to stare at his friend, the assassin, whom he could dimly discern where
he lay sprawled on a cot in the abandon of a man filled with drink. He was
snoring with incredible vigor. His wet hair and beard dimly glistened and his
inflamed nose shone with subdued luster like a red light in a fog.
Within reach of the youth’s hand was one who lay with yellow breast and
shoulders bare to the cold drafts. One arm hung over the side of the cot and
the fingers lay full length upon the wet cement floor of the room. Beneath
the inky brows could be seen the eyes of the man exposed by the partly
opened lids. To the youth it seemed that he and this corpse-like being were
exchanging a prolonged stare and that the other threatened with his eyes.
66

-- 70 of 568 --

STEPHEN CRANE
He drew back, watching his neighbor from the shadows of his blanket edge.
The man did not move once through the night, but lay in this stillness as of
death, like a body stretched out, expectant of the surgeon s knife.
And all through the room could be seen the tawny hues of naked flesh,
limbs thrust into the darkness, projecting beyond the cots; up-reared knees;
arms hanging, long and thin, over the cot edges. For the most part they were
statuesque, carven, dead. With the curious lockers standing all about like
tombstones there was a strange effect of a graveyard, where bodies were
merely flung.
Yet occasionally could be seen limbs wildly tossing in fantastic, nightmare
gestures, accompanied by guttural cries, grunts, oaths. And there was one fel¬
low off in a gloomy corner, who in his dreams was oppressed by some fright¬
ful calamity, for of a sudden he began to utter long wails that went almost like
yells from a hound, echoing wailfully and weird through this chill place of
tombstones, where men lay like the dead.
The sound, in its high piercing beginnings that dwindled to final melan¬
choly moans, expressed a red and grim tragedy of the unfathomable possi¬
bilities of the man s dreams. But to the youth these were not merely the
shrieks of a vision-pierced man. They were an utterance of the meaning of
the room and its occupants. It was to him the protest of the wretch who feels
the touch of the imperturbable granite wheels and who then cries with an
impersonal eloquence, with a strength not from him, giving voice to the wail
of a whole section, a class, a people. This, weaving into the young man's
brain and mingling with his views of these vast and somber shadows that like
mighty black fingers curled around the naked bodies, made the young man
so that he did not sleep, but lay carving biographies for these men from his
meager experience. At times the fellow in the corner howled in a writhing
agony of his imaginations.
Finally a long lance point of gray light shot through the dusty panes of the
window. Without, the young man could see roofs drearily white in the dawn¬
ing. The point of light yellowed and grew brighter, until the golden rays of
the morning sun came in bravely and strong. They touched with radiant
color the form of a small, fat man, who snored in stuttering fashion. His
round and shiny bald head glowed suddenly with the valor of a decoration.
He sat up, blinked at the sun, swore fretfully and pulled his blanket over the
ornamental splendors of his head.
The youth contentedly watched this rout of the shadows before the bright
spears of the sun and presently he slumbered. When he awoke he heard the
voice of the assassin raised in valiant curses. Putting up his head he per¬
ceived his comrade seated on the side of the cot engaged in scratching his
neck with long finger nails that rasped like files.
“Hully Jee dis is a new breed. They’ve got can openers on their feet,” he
continued in a violent tirade.
The young man hastily unlocked his closet and took out his shoes and
67

-- 71 of 568 --

THE ART OF FACT
hat. As he sat on the side of the cot, lacing his shoes, he glanced about and
saw that daylight had made the room comparatively commonplace and
uninteresting. The men, whose faces seemed stolid, serene or absent, were
engaged in dressing, while a great crackle of bantering conversation arose.
A few were parading in unconcerned nakedness. Here and there were
men of brawn, whose skins shone clear and ruddy. They took splendid poses,
standing massively, like chiefs. When they had dressed in their ungainly gar¬
ments there was an extraordinary change. They then showed bumps and
deficiencies of all kinds.
There were others who exhibited many deformities. Shoulders were
slanting, humped, pulled this way and pulled that way. And notable among
these latter men was the little fat man who had refused to allow his head to
be glorified. His pudgy form, builded like a pear, bustled to and fro, while he
swore in fish-wife fashion. It appeared that some article of his apparel had
vanished.
The young man, attired speedily, went to his friend, the assassin. At first
the latter looked dazed at the sight of the youth. This face seemed to be
appealing to him through the cloud wastes of his memory. He scratched his
neck and reflected. At last he grinned, a broad smile gradually spreading
until his countenance was a round illumination. “Hello, Willie,” he cried,
cheerily.
“Hello,” said the young man. “Are yeh ready t’ fly?”
“Sure.” The assassin tied his shoe carefully with some twine and came
ambling.
When he reached the street the young man experienced no sudden relief
from unholy atmospheres. He had forgotten all about them, and had been
breathing naturally and with no sensation of discomfort or distress.
He was thinking of these things as he walked along the street, when he
was suddenly startled by feeling the assassin s hand, trembling with excite¬
ment, clutching his arm, and when the assassin spoke, his voice went into
quavers from a supreme agitation.
“I’ll be hully, bloomin’ blowed, if there wasn’t a feller with a nightshirt on
up there in that joint!”
The youth was bewildered for a moment, but presently he turned to smile
indulgently at the assassin’s humor.
“Oh, you’re a d-liar,” he merely said.
Whereupon the assassin began to gesture extravagantly and take oath by
strange gods. He frantically placed himself at the mercy of remarkable fates
if his tale were not true. “Yes, he did! I cross in’ heart thousan’ times!” he
protested, and at the time his eyes were large with amazement, his mouth
wrinkled in unnatural glee. “Yessir! A nightshirt! A hully white nightshirt!”
“You lie!”
“Nosir! I hope ter die b’fore I kin git anudder ball if there wasn’t a jay wid
a hully, bloomin’white nightshirt!”
68

-- 72 of 568 --

STEPHEN CRANE
His face was filled with the infinite wonder of it. “A hully white night¬
shirt,’’ he continually repeated.
The young man saw the dark entrance to a basement restaurant. There
was a sign which read, "No mystery about our hash,” and there were other
age stained and world battered legends which told him that the place was
within his means. He stopped before it and spoke to the assassin. "1 guess I’ll
git somethin’ t’ eat.”
At this the assassin, for some reason, appeared to be quite embarrassed.
He gazed at the seductive front of the eating place for a moment. Then he
started slowly up the street. “Well, goodby, Willie,” he said, bravely.
For an instant the youth studied the departing figure. Then he called out,
“HoF on a minnet.” As they came together he spoke in a certain fierce way,
as if he feared that the other would think him to be weak. "Look-a-here, if
yeh wanta git some breakfas’ I ll lend yeh three cents t do it with. But say,
look-a-here, you’ve gota git out an’ hustle. I ain’t goin’t’ support yeh, or I’ll go
broke b’fore night. I ain’t no millionaire.”
“I take me oath, Willie,” said the assassin, earnestly, “th’on’y thing I really
needs is a ball. Me t’roat feels like a fryin’ pan. But as I can’t git a ball, why,
th’ next bes’ thing is breakfast, an’ if yeh do that fer me, b’gawd, I’d say yeh
was th’ whitest lad I ever see.”
They spent a few moments in dexterous exchanges of phrases, in which
they each protested that the other was, as the assassin had originally said, a
“respecter’ble gentlem’n.” And they concluded with mutual assurances that
they were the souls of intelligence and virtue. Then they went into the
restaurant.
There was a long counter, dimly lighted from hidden sources. Two or
three men in soiled white aprons rushed here and there.
The youth bought a bowl of coffee for two cents and a roll for one cent.
The assassin purchased the same. The bowls were webbed with brown
seams, and the tin spoons wore an air of having emerged from the first pyra¬
mid. Upon them were black, moss-like encrustations of age, and they were
bent and scarred from the attacks of long forgotten teeth. But over their
repast the wanderers waxed warm and mellow. The assassin grew affable as
the hot mixture went soothingly down his parched throat, and the young
man felt courage flow in his veins.
Memories began to throng in on the assassin, and he brought forth long
tales, intricate, incoherent, delivered with a chattering swiftness as from an
old woman. “—great job out’n Orange. Boss keep yeh hustlin’, though, all
time. I was there three days, and then I went an’ askim t’ lend me a dollar.
‘G-g-go ter the devil,’ he ses, an’ 1 lose me job.
—“South no good. Damn niggers work for twenty-five an’ thirty cents a
day. Run white man out. Good grub, though. Easy livin’.
—“Yas; useter work little in Toledo, raftin’ logs. Make two or three dollars
er day in the spring. Lived high. Cold as ice, though, in the winter—
69

-- 73 of 568 --

THE ART OF FACT
“I was raised in northern NAork. O-o-o-oh, yeh jest oughto live there. No
beer ner whisky, though, way off in the woods. But all th’ good hot grub yeh
can eat. B gawd, I hung around there long as I could till th’ oh man fired me.
‘Git t’hell outa here, yeh wuthless skunk, git t’hell outa here an’ go die/ he
ses. ‘You’re a hell of a father/ I ses, ‘you are/ an’ I quit ’im.”
As they were passing from the dim eating place they encountered an old
man who was trying to steal forth with a tiny package of food, but a tall man
with an indomitable mustache stood dragon fashion, barring the way of
escape. They heard the old man raise a plaintive protest. “Ah, you always
want to know what I take out, and you never see that I usually bring a pack¬
age in here from my place of business.”
As the wanderers trudged slowly along Park Row, the assassin began to
expand and grow blithe. “B’gawd, we’ve been livin’ like kings,” he said,
smacking appreciative lips.
“Look out or we ll have t’ pay fer it t’ night,” said the youth, with gloomy
warning.
But the assassin refused to turn his gaze toward the future. He went with
a limping step, into which he injected a suggestion of lamb-like gambols.
His mouth was wreathed in a red grin.
In the City Hall Park the two wanderers sat down in the little circle of
benches sanctified by traditions of their class. They huddled in their old gar¬
ments, slumbrously conscious of the march of the hours which for them had
no meaning.
The people of the street hurrying hither and thither made a blend of
black figures, changing, yet frieze-like. They walked in their good clothes as
upon important missions, giving no gaze to the two wanderers seated upon
the benches. They expressed to the young man his infinite distance from all
that he valued. Social position, comfort, the pleasures of living, were uncon¬
querable kingdoms. He felt a sudden awe.
And in the background a multitude of buildings, of pitiless hues and
sternly high, were to him emblematic of a nation forcing its regal head into
the clouds, throwing no downward glances; in the sublimity of its aspirations
ignoring the wretches who may flounder at its feet. The roar of the city in his
ear was to him the confusion of strange tongues, babbling heedlessly; it was
the clink of coin, the voice of the city’s hopes which were to him no hopes.
He confessed himself an outcast, and his eyes from under the lowered
rim of his hat began to glance guiltily, wearing the criminal expression that
comes with certain convictions.
70

-- 74 of 568 --

The Death of Rodriguez
RICHARD HARDING DAVIS
Richard Harding Davis (1864-1916) popularized the image of the war cor¬
respondent as romantic swashbuckler. Handsome and flamboyant, he trav¬
eled in style to battle sites all over the world, and then roughed it at the
front. In the last twenty years of his life, Davis covered the Greek-Turkish
War, the Spanish-American War, the Boer War, the Russo-Japanese War,
the Mexican Revolution, and World War I.
Davis’s mother, Rebecca Harding Davis, wrote naturalistic fiction (Pig
Iron); his father, L. Clarke Davis, edited the Philadelphia Public Ledger.
The young Davis published novels, plays, and travel books before finding
his voice as a chronicler of war. “The Death of Rodriguez,” one of his early
dispatches, shows why he became famous as a descriptive writer.
A year before the Spanish-American War, William Randolph Hearst’s
New York Journal assigned Davis to report on insurrection in Cuba. One of
the rebels was Adolfo Rodriguez, twenty, a farmer’s son sentenced to death
for bearing arms against Spanish authority. None of his friends or family
could attend the execution. “Although Rodriguez could not know it,” Davis
later wrote, “there was one person present when he died who felt keenly
for him, and who was a sympathetic though unwilling spectator.”
Davis’s report uses no dialogue at all. Its main impact is visual, establishing
atmosphere through the eerie predawn light and the desolate landscape, and
epitomizing the prisoner’s bravery in his stride, posture, and quiet self-control.
Davis seems to narrate in slow motion, which increases the tension while
adding importance to each small particular. Rodriguez’s spirit is symbolized
by two objects, a cigarette (still burning after the execution) and a scapular.
The story ends with sudden sunlight, cacophony, and a poignant tableau.
Some of the descriptions—of moon and sun, for example—are reminis¬
cent of Davis’s friend Stephen Crane. Other passages prefigure the report¬
ing of Ernest Hemingway, especially in using a subdued tone and
hauntingly precise details to eulogize chivalric courage.
—K. K.
71

-- 75 of 568 --

THE ART OF FACT
. . . There had been a full moon the night preceding the execution, and when
the squad of soldiers marched from town it was still shining brightly through
the mists. It lighted a plain two miles in extent, broken by ridges and gullies
and covered with thick, high grass, and with bunches of cactus and pal¬
metto. In the hollow of the ridges the mist lay like broad lakes of water, and
on one side of the plain stood the walls of the old town. On the other rose
hills covered with royal palms that showed white in the moonlight, like hun¬
dreds of marble columns. A line of tiny camp-fires that the sentries had built
during the night stretched between the forts at regular intervals and burned
clearly.
But as the light grew stronger and the moonlight faded these were
stamped out, and when the soldiers came in force the moon was a white ball
in the sky, without radiance, the fires had sunk to ashes, and the sun had not
yet risen.
So even when the men were formed into three sides of a hollow square,
they were scarcely able to distinguish one another in the uncertain light of
the morning.
There were about three hundred soldiers in the formation. They
belonged to the volunteers, and they deployed upon the plain with their
band in front playing a jaunty quickstep, while their officers galloped from
one side to the other through the grass, seeking a suitable place for the exe¬
cution. Outside the line the band still played merrily.
A few men and boys, who had been dragged out of their beds by the
music, moved about the ridges behind the soldiers, half-clothed, unshaven,
sleepy-eyed, yawning, stretching themselves nervously and shivering in the
cool, damp air of the morning.
Either owing to discipline or on account of the nature of their errand, or
because the men were still but half awake, there was no talking in the ranks,
and the soldiers stood motionless, leaning on their rifles, with their backs
turned to the town, looking out across the plain to the hills.
The men in the crowd behind them were also grimly silent. They knew that
whatever they might say would be twisted into a word of sympathy for the con¬
demned man or a protest against the government. So no one spoke; even the
officers gave their orders in gruff whispers, and the men in the crowd did not
mix together, but looked suspiciously at one another and kept apart.
As the light increased a mass of people came hurrying from the town with
two black figures leading them, and the soldiers drew up at attention, and
part of the double line fell back and left an opening in the square.
With us a condemned man walks only the short distance from his cell to
the scaffold or the electric chair, shielded from sight by the prison walls, and
it often occurs even then that the short journey is too much for his strength
and courage.
72

-- 76 of 568 --

RICHARD HARDING DAVIS
But the Spaniards on this morning made the prisoner walk for over a half-
mile across the broken surface of the fields. I expected to find the man, no mat¬
ter what his strength at other times might be, stumbling and faltering on this
cruel journey; but as he came nearer I saw that he led all the others, that the
priests on either side of him were taking two steps to his one, and that they
were tripping on their gowns and stumbling over the hollows in their efforts
to keep pace with him as he walked, erect and soldierly, at a quick step in
advance of them.
He had a handsome, gentle face of the peasant type, a light, pointed
beard, great wistful eyes, and a mass of curly black hair. He was shockingly
young for such a sacrifice, and looked more like a Neapolitan than a Cuban.
You could imagine him sitting on the quay at Naples or Genoa lolling in the
sun and showing his white teeth when he laughed. Around his neck, hang¬
ing outside his linen blouse, he wore a new scapular.
It seems a petty thing to have been pleased with at such a time, but I con¬
fess to have felt a thrill of satisfaction when I saw, as the Cuban passed me,
that he held a cigarette between his lips, not arrogantly nor with bravado,
but with the nonchalance of a man who meets his punishment fearlessly,
and who will let his enemies see that they can kill but cannot frighten him.
It was very quickly finished, with rough and, but for one frightful blunder,
with merciful swiftness. The crowd fell back when it came to the square,
and the condemned man, the priests, and the firing squad of six young vol¬
unteers passed in and the line closed behind them.
The officer who had held the cord that bound the Cuban’s arms behind
him and passed across his breast, let it fall on the grass and drew his sword,
and Rodriguez dropped his cigarette from his lips and bent and kissed the
cross which the priest held up before him.
The elder of the priests moved to one side and prayed rapidly in a loud
whisper, while the other, a younger man, walked behind the firing squad and
covered his face with his hands. They had both spent the last twelve hours
with Rodriguez in the chapel of the prison.
The Cuban walked to where the officer directed him to stand, and turn¬
ing his back on the square, faced the hills and the road across them, which
led to his father’s farm.
As the officer gave the first command he straightened himself as far as
the cords would allow, and held up his head and fixed his eyes immovably on
the morning light, which had just begun to show above the hills.
He made a picture of such pathetic helplessness, but of such courage and
dignity, that he reminded me on the instant of that statue of Nathan Hale
which stands in the City Hall Park, above the roar of Broadway. The Cuban’s
arms were bound, as are those of the statue, and he stood firmly, with his
weight resting on his heels like a soldier on parade, and with his face held up
fearlessly, as is that of the statue. But there was this difference, that
Rodriguez, while probably as willing to give six lives for his country as was
73

-- 77 of 568 --

THE ART OF FACT
the American rebel, being only a peasant, did not think to say so, and he will
not, in consequence, live in bronze during the lives of many men, but will be
remembered only as one of thirty Cubans, one of whom was shot at Santa
Clara on each succeeding day at sunrise.
The officer had given the order, the men had raised their pieces, and the
condemned man had heard the clicks of the triggers as they were pulled
back, and he had not moved. And then happened one of the most cruelly
refined, though unintentional, acts of torture that one can very well imag¬
ine. As the officer slowly raised his sword, preparatory to giving the signal,
one of the mounted officers rode up to him and pointed out silently that, as
I had already observed with some satisfaction, the firing squad were so
placed that when they fired they would shoot several of the soldiers sta¬
tioned on the extreme end of the square.
Their captain motioned his men to lower their pieces, and then walked
across the grass and laid his hand on the shoulder of the waiting prisoner.
It is not pleasant to think what that shock must have been. The man had
steeled himself to receive a volley of bullets. He believed that in the next
instant he would be in another world; he had heard the command given, had
heard the click of the Mausers as the locks caught—and then, at that
supreme moment, a human hand had been laid upon his shoulder and a
voice spoke in his ear.
You would expect that any man, snatched back to life in such a fashion
would start and tremble at the reprieve, or would break down altogether, but
this boy turned his head steadily, and followed with his eyes the direction of
the officer’s sword, then nodded gravely, and, with his shoulders squared, took
up the new position, straightened his back, and once more held himself erect.
As an exhibition of self-control this should surely rank above feats of
heroism performed in battle, where there are thousands of comrades to give
inspiration. This man was alone, in sight of the hills he knew, with only ene¬
mies about him, with no source to draw on for strength but that which lay
within himself.
The officer of the firing squad, mortified by his blunder, hastily whipped
up his sword, the men once more levelled their rifles, the sword rose,
dropped, and the men fired. At the report the Cuban’s head snapped back
almost between his shoulders, but his body fell slowly, as though some one
had pushed him gently forward from behind and he had stumbled.
He sank on his side in the wet grass without a struggle or sound, and did
not move again.
It was difficult to believe that he meant to lie there, that it could be ended
so without a word, that the man in the linen suit would not rise to his feet
and continue to walk on over the hills, as he apparently had started to do, to
his home; that there was not a mistake somewhere, or that at least some one
would be sorry or say something or run to pick him up.
But, fortunately, he did not need help, and the priests returned—the
74

-- 78 of 568 --

RICHARD HARDING DAVIS
younger one with the tears running down his face—and donned their vest¬
ments and read a brief requiem for his soul, while the squad stood uncovered,
and the men in the hollow square shook their accoutrements into place, and
shifted their pieces and got ready for the order to march, and the band
began again with the same quickstep which the fusillade had interrupted.
The figure still lay on the grass untouched, and no one seemed to remem¬
ber that it had walked there of itself, or noticed that the cigarette still
burned, a tiny ring of living fire, at the place where the figure had first stood.
The figure was a thing of the past, and the squad shook itself like a great
snake, and then broke into little pieces and started off jauntily, stumbling in
the high grass and striving to keep step to the music.
The officers led it past the figure in the linen suit, and so close to it that the
file closers had to part with the column to avoid treading on it. Each soldier
as he passed turned and looked down on it, some craning their necks curiously,
others giving a careless glance, and some without any interest at all, as they
would have looked at a house by the roadside, or a hole in the road.
One young soldier caught his foot in a trailing vine, just opposite to it,
and fell. He grew very red when his comrades giggled at him for his awk¬
wardness. The crowd of sleepy spectators fell in on either side of the band.
They, too, had forgotten it, and the priests put their vestments back in the
bag and wrapped their heavy cloaks about them, and hurried off after the
others.
Every one seemed to have forgotten it except two men, who came slowly
towards it from the town, driving a bullock-cart that bore an unplaned cof¬
fin, each with a cigarette between his lips, and with his throat wrapped in a
shawl to keep out the morning mists.
At that moment the sun, which had shown some promise of its coming in
the glow above the hills, shot up suddenly from behind them in all the splen¬
dor of the tropics, a fierce, red disk of heat, and filled the air with warmth
and light.
The bayonets of the retreating column flashed in it, and at the sight a
rooster in a farm-yard near by crowed vigorously, and a dozen bugles
answered the challenge with the brisk, cheery notes of the reveille, and from
all parts of the city the church bells jangled out the call for early mass, and
the little world of Santa Clara seemed to stretch itself and to wake to wel¬
come the day just begun.
But as I fell in at the rear of the procession and looked back, the figure of
the young Cuban, who was no longer a part of the world of Santa Clara, was
asleep in the wet grass, with his motionless arms still tightly bound behind
him, with the scapular twisted awry across his face, and the blood from his
breast sinking into the soil he had tried to free.
75

-- 79 of 568 --

Can t Get Their Minds Ashore
ABRAHAM CAHAN
Fleeing a pogrom in his native Lithuania, Abraham Cahan (1860-1951)
emigrated to the United States at the age of twenty-one. After writing pam¬
phlets for the Socialist Labor party, he turned to journalism, both in Yid¬
dish and English. In 1897 he cofounded the Jewish Daily Forward, which
would become the leading Yiddish newspaper in America. In 1898 he
began working as a city reporter for the New York Commercial Advertiser,
whose editor, Lincoln Steffens, wanted “to make a new kind of daily jour¬
nalism, personal, literary and immediate.”
One of Cahan’s beats was the Barge Office at the foot of Manhattan,
which for several years served as a receiving station for the newest immi¬
grants. Here he developed a style of compassionate interviewing, and of
reporting through extended dialogue. Without recourse to dialect spelling,
Cahan captured the idiom and imagery, and the elation and bewilderment,
of people from every corner of the world.
Another main beat was the Lower East Side, the center of Jewish immi¬
grant life. Cahan’s stories were filled with the rhythms of vernacular
speech, the background sounds of pushcarts and peddlers’ cries, and
countless individual dramas, both tragic and comic, of cultural adaptation.
Cahan also wrote two books of fiction, and was a devoted reader (and occa¬
sional translator) of Tolstoy, Dostoyevsky, and Chekhov. Two of his American
favorites, Stephen Crane and William Dean Howells, praised Cahan for
extending the art of realistic storytelling in journalism. Cahan redefined
“news” to include the felt life of the city itself—and in the process, he
explored the larger question of what it means to be an American.
A score of immigrants of half a dozen different nationalities were this morn¬
ing clustered about a young Italian who sat on one of the long benches at
the Barge Office. His name was Farneti Albano, and he was quite a hand-
76

-- 80 of 568 --

