

-- 1 of 357 --

Praise for They Ask, You Answer
“I’m a marketing agency owner and read a lot of books
about marketing and sales. They Ask, You Answer is the
best thing I’ve read on the topics of content and inbound
marketing. I’ve bought over 60 copies of this book over
the past few months and have been sending them to
clients and prospective customers simply because no one
has done a better job than Marcus at explaining content
and inbound marketing in a way that the average person
can grasp. [They Ask, You Answer ] should be required
reading for any modern CMO, marketing director, or VP
of sales.”
–Joe Sullivan, Founder, Gorilla 76
“I just wanted to pass along a huge thank you. I just
finished reading your book They Ask, You Answer, and it
has left me as inspired as I was 12 years ago when I
started my company. I read it in less than a day,
brainstormed our first 80 topics, and also wrote our first
1,400-word piece on top five problems the same day.
This is such a great way to be seen as experts in our field
and I can’t believe we didn’t think of it. We do a great job
showing our expertise over the phone, but most people
don’t call. This WILL change their impression of us
without a phone call. Thank you again; you have no idea
how much this means for our company, my employees,
and their families.”
–Greg Knighton, Owner, Beyond the Office Door
“I rarely get ‘ga-ga’ over an author or a specific book
(though I love to read and have my favorite authors). But
after finishing They Ask, You Answer over the weekend,
I felt compelled to connect with you. I started thinking
about what impact this information could have on my
own business and how I can bring it to other small
businesses. As of right now, I typically offer straight-up
copywriting and writing coaching to clients. But I just
spent 90 minutes with my business coach, hashing out
how I can pull your principles into what I do with clients.

-- 2 of 357 --

(She bought your book, too, on my recommendation. We
were literally paging through the book to gather ideas
and insight during our call.)”
–Abby M. Herman, Write Solutions
“I love that you put the reader into the right frame of
mind, almost immediately. I love that you establish the
baseline of what it takes to be great. I love that you have
the stats that reinforce the message. And I love your
ability as a storyteller and your desire to include your
own personal examples as well as other related
examples. In short: I love it.”
–David Moreland, Professor, Lawrence Kinlin School of
Business
“I’ve finished your book yesterday. Brilliant read, and
thank you very much. But what a pain! It has changed
my perception on things, so today I am working on my
own company already, taking your advice on board.”
–Lukas Brzozowski, Solobirch
“They Ask, You Answer is now my bible in developing an
updated strategy game plan for my agency.”
–Matt Jacoby, Octave Media
“They Ask, You Answer offers the most polished
presentation of Marcus’ philosophy and processes. It’s
also one of the most transparent content marketing
books I’ve read. Marcus doesn’t hold anything back in
[They Ask, You Answer]. He candidly discusses pricing
and disclosure strategies, qualifying prospects, handling
disruptive competitors, and involving his sales staff in
the content creation process. It is as close as you can get
to sitting next to Marcus in first class and chatting on a
coast-to-coast flight. It brought back all of lessons I had
learned in retail … the basics that most businesses
neglect. (And that most big agencies can’t comprehend.)
As a lover of carefully written, savvy, helpful nonfiction, I
just wanted to share my respect for the freshness and
relevance of your book.”
–Roger C. Parker

-- 3 of 357 --

“I came across They Ask, You Answer and [have] been
able to massively increase the value I offer my
customers. I’ve had a few big projects this year, and in
every case, I’ve advocated a They Ask, You Answer
approach to content marketing. I’ve managed to sell
education centers to a number of big B2B clients, and
they’re all thrilled with the results they’re seeing. My
reputation as a content writer has sky-rocketed, I’m
getting far more business via word of mouth, and my
clients are doing better in terms of their customer care
and their organic SEO results. I’m able to walk into
introductory meetings confidently now, knowing I have a
tried and tested content marketing strategy to sell. So,
thank you.”
–Lorrie Hartshorn, Freelance Copywriter
“Excellent book and sound advice that goes beyond the
content marketing buzzword and focuses on providing
value-first advice for people who are doing their pre-
purchase research. I especially appreciated the strategies
shared for getting the Sales team involved in what it
typically viewed as ‘marketing’s job.’ The author lays out
a great process for winning them over and getting them
actively producing content of value to the company’s
prospects and customers.”
–Don the Idea Guy
“This is a beautiful perspective. Rather than the typical
‘pump out more content’ advice I read every day, this
book is all about helping customers. It gives you one of
those ‘duh’ moments where you say, ‘If I am producing
educational content that answers questions from
customers, it will attract people to our company because
we’re genuinely serving them.’ This book centers on the
idea that education and helping is the place your content
should come from. It’s refreshing after reading so many
books that focus on vanity metrics like number of likes
and shares. There are lots of great case studies in the
book, even for companies who are in seemingly
commodity-based spaces.”
–Lisa Cummings

-- 4 of 357 --

“This book teaches you core, fundamental, commonly
overlooked truths that set the foundation for any
marketing campaign you decide to do. You will no longer
see marketing as a complex or gamblers’ game of
attracting sales through any and all means until one way
‘just works’ to stick to. Incredibly calming and peaceful
experience for hardened marketers that have tried a lot
of ways to market their products, but are still open to
learning and understanding that there could be more
that they haven’t figured out. Exhilarating experience.”
–Doug Mitchell
“The single greatest public speaker I’ve ever had the
pleasure of hearing, Marcus has unmatched energy and
passion for content marketing (not to mention
SUCCESS!), and he brings all of it to this book. It’s
practical, easy to digest, and will leave you excited to
walk into work the next day and begin fundamental
change. I bought copies for my whole team!”
–Dan Gingiss, Vice President, Persado
“Marcus Sheridan knocks it out of the park with the most
motivating, tactical, and informative book on content
marketing out there. He has changed my business and
many others that I know by his simple principle They
Ask, You Answer. Such a simple concept that many
forget … and Marcus really breaks down EVERYTHING
you need to know in order to be successful at this.”
–Bella Vasta, Speaker, Business Owner
“Marcus Sheridan shares a formula for success that I’ve
personally witnessed many times as the foundation for
today’s top performing companies. His simple formula,
They Ask, You Answer, ensures that your organization
becomes the best teacher on the planet in your field.
Marcus shares remarkable stories, brilliant insight, and
actionable steps to put your company ahead of the
competition. No book can compare to seeing Marcus
speak in person, but this is a close second. You’ll love this
book.”
–Ian Altman, Speaker

-- 5 of 357 --

“This book is The Bible of content marketing and
inbound sales. It offers an incredibly powerful yet simple
message. It is 100 percent aligned with how customers
think — yes, the ones who vote with their wallets and
ultimately decide the fate of a business. More than just a
book, this is a culmination of five years of testing and
proving in the real world. It is for those business owners
and marketers who would be willing to temporarily clear
away their pre-conceived notions of what they think
works, and be open to seeing how a fresh approach has
already created transformational success for so many
others. I also appreciate how easy it is to read. There’s no
jargon or filler. Love it!”
–John Soh

-- 6 of 357 --

MARCUS SHERIDAN
Foreword by Krista Kotrla
THEY ASK YOU ANSWER
REVISED AND UPDATED
A REVOLUTIONARY APPROACH TO
INBOUND SALES,
CONTENT MARKETING,
AND TODAY’S DIGITAL CONSUMER

-- 7 of 357 --

Copyright © 2019 by Marcus Sheridan. All rights reserved.
Published by John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Hoboken, New Jersey.
First edition published by John Wiley & Sons, Inc., in 2017.
Published simultaneously in Canada.
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system,
or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical,
photocopying, recording, scanning, or otherwise, except as permitted under
Section 107 or 108 of the 1976 United States Copyright Act, without either
the prior written permission of the Publisher, or authorization through
payment of the appropriate per-copy fee to the Copyright Clearance Center,
Inc., 222 Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA 01923, (978) 750–8400, fax (978)
646–8600, or on the Web at www.copyright.com. Requests to the Publisher
for permission should be addressed to the Permissions Department, John
Wiley & Sons, Inc., 111 River Street, Hoboken, NJ 07030, (201) 748–6011,
fax (201) 748–6008, or online at http://www.wiley.com/go/permissions.
Limit of Liability/Disclaimer of Warranty: While the publisher and author
have used their best efforts in preparing this book, they make no
representations or warranties with respect to the accuracy or completeness
of the contents of this book and specifically disclaim any implied warranties
of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. No warranty may be
created or extended by sales representatives or written sales materials. The
advice and strategies contained herein may not be suitable for your
situation. You should consult with a professional where appropriate.
Neither the publisher nor author shall be liable for any loss of profit or any
other commercial damages, including but not limited to special, incidental,
consequential, or other damages.
For general information on our other products and services or for technical
support, please contact our Customer Care Department within the United
States at (800) 762–2974, outside the United States at (317) 572–3993 or
fax (317) 572–4002.
Wiley publishes in a variety of print and electronic formats and by print-on-
demand. Some material included with standard print versions of this book
may not be included in e-books or in print-on-demand. If this book refers to
media such as a CD or DVD that is not included in the version you
purchased, you may download this material at
http://booksupport.wiley.com. For more information about Wiley products,
visit www.wiley.com.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data:
ISBN 9781119610144 (Hardcover)
ISBN 9781119611004 (ePDF)
ISBN 9781119611028 (ePub)
Cover image: © Alex Belomlinsky/Getty Images, Inc.
Cover design: Wiley

-- 8 of 357 --

CONTENTS
Foreword
Introduction
Part I A Very Different Way of Looking at Business,
Marketing, and Trust
Chapter 1 The Fall
How I Became a “Pool Guy”
2001 to 2008: The False Economy
2008: The Wheels Start to Fall Off
Chapter 2 A Massive Buying Shift and the Blur
Between Sales and Marketing
Chapter 3 This Book Won’t Work for You If …
Chapter 4 The Discovery of They Ask, You
Answer
Chapter 5 They Ask, You Answer Defined
Chapter 6 Brainstorming the Questions You Are
Asked Every Day
Putting It into Action
Chapter 7 The Ostrich Marketing Strategy
Chapter 8 The CarMax Effect
The Beginnings of CarMax and a New Way
to Sell
Putting It into Action
Chapter 9 The Discovery of The Big 5
Chapter 10 The Big 5, Topic 1: Pricing and
Cost: Why We Must Talk About Money
“Every Solution Is Different”
“Our Competitors Will Find Out What We
Charge”
“We’ll Scare Customers Away”
Chapter 11 How One Article About Money
Generated More Than $6 Million in Sales

-- 9 of 357 --

Putting It into Action
Chapter 12 Case Study 1: High-End B2B
Technology Company Generates More Than $8
Million in Additional Revenue
About Segue Technologies
The Snowball Begins
Segue Technologies’ Astounding Growth
Improving the System to Produce Content
Chapter 13 The Big 5, Topic 2: Problems: How
to Turn Weaknesses into Strengths
Chapter 14 Addressing the Elephant in the
Room
Chapter 15 How Talking About Our Problems
Generated More Than $1 Million in Revenue
Putting It into Action
Chapter 16 Case Study 2: An Equipment
Financing Company Becomes a Digital David
and Conquers the Industry Goliaths
About Smarter Finance USA
Smarter Finance USA Embraces They Ask,
You Answer
Smarter Finance USA Focuses on
Educating Small Business Owners
Searching for Equipment Loans Online
Smarter Finance USA’s Educational
Content Pays Off in a Big Way
Chapter 17 The Big 5, Topic 3: Versus and
Comparisons
The Results
Putting It into Action
Chapter 18 The Critical Need for Unbiased
Content
Disarmament: The Quickest Way to Build
Trust
Chapter 19 The Big 5, Topics 4 and 5: Reviews
and Best in Class

-- 10 of 357 --

Putting It into Action
Chapter 20 Using Reviews to Establish Yourself
as an Expert
Chapter 21 The Impact of Discussing
Competition
Putting It into Action
Chapter 22 Case Study 3: Small Retail
Appliance Store Dominates Online and Makes
Millions
About Yale Appliance
A CEO Becomes Head of Business
Development
Yale Appliance Tackles the Tougher
Questions
Yale Appliance’s Success with Inbound
Marketing
Chapter 23 The Competition
The Bad Fits
The Customer
Chapter 24 How They Ask, You Answer Saved
River Pools and Spas
Part II The Impact of They Ask, You Answer on
Sales Teams
Chapter 25 How Great Content Is a Total Game-
Changer for Sales Teams
The 7 Major Benefits of Sales Teams
Embracing They Ask, You Answer
Chapter 26 A Dramatic Discovery
Chapter 27 Assignment Selling
An Example of Assignment Selling in
Action
The Special Rights of the Teacher
What Homework Can Tell Us About a
Prospect
Chapter 28 How One Remarkable Couple
Changed My Perspective on the Power of

-- 11 of 357 --

Content to Sell
Chapter 29 Content Never Sleeps
Chapter 30 How to Use Assignment Selling to
Avoid Common Pitfalls
Chapter 31 How to Use Assignment Selling to
Determine Compatibility
Chapter 32 Case Study 4: How a Healthcare
Startup Became the Thought Leaders of an
Entirely New Industry
About Health Catalyst
Phase 1: Uniting the Marketing and Sales
Silos
Phases 2 and 3: Live Webinars and Events
Success and Plans for the Future
Part III Implementation and Making It a Culture
Chapter 33 The Power of Insourcing and Using
Your Team to Create Incredible Content
Chapter 34 Case Study 5: How Block Imaging
Embraced a Culture of Insourcing
The Silos Must Be Eliminated
Understanding the What, the Why, and the
How
Chapter 35 Starting Off They Ask, You Answer
with a Bang: Company Workshops
Principle 1: Buyer Expectations Have
Changed
Principle 2: The Way Search Engines Work
Principle 3: The Way Consumers Search
and The Big 5
Principle 4: Group Brainstorming of
Content Ideas
Principle 5: The Impact Content Can Have
on the Sales Process and Closing Rates
Principle 6: The Reason Why Everyone’s
Voice, Talents, and Knowledge Are Critical
for Success

-- 12 of 357 --

Principle 7: The Editorial Guidelines Going
Forward
Principle 8: A Look into the Future
Chapter 36 The Content Manager: Qualities to
Look for, How to Hire One, and More
Someone Must Own It
Choosing the Right Leader of Your Content
Marketing Efforts
Trained Journalists May Be a Perfect
Match for Your Content Marketing Needs
How to Make Sure Your Potential Content
Manager Is the Right Fit for Your Company
and Brand
Chapter 37 The Importance of Having the Right
Tools: Measuring Return on Investment, the
Power of HubSpot, and More
1. The Continuous Ability to Measure ROI
of Your Digital Marketing Efforts
2. The Ability to Track Lead Behavior and
Use This Advanced Intelligence
Throughout the Sales Process
3. The Ability to Test Your Website
Part IV Creating a Culture of Video… In-House
Chapter 38 We’re All Media Companies and the
Visual Sale
Chapter 39 The Selling 7: 7 Videos That Will
Immediately Impact Sales and Closing Rates
Chapter 40 The Selling 7, Video 1: The 80
Percent Video
Putting It into Action
Common Questions Regarding the 80
Percent Video
Chapter 41 The Selling 7, Video 2: Bio Videos
for Email Signatures
Common Questions Regarding Bio Videos

-- 13 of 357 --

Chapter 42 The Selling 7, Video 3: Product and
Service Fit Videos
Common Questions Regarding Product and
Service Fit Videos
Chapter 43 The Selling 7, Video 4: Landing
Page Videos
Common Questions Regarding Landing
Page Videos
Chapter 44 The Selling 7, Video 5: Cost and
Pricing Videos
Common Questions Regarding Cost and
Pricing Videos
Chapter 45 The Selling 7, Video 6: Customer
Journey Videos
Common Question Regarding Customer
Journey Videos
Chapter 46 The Selling 7, Video 7: “Claims We
Make” Videos
Common Questions Regarding “Claims We
Make” Videos
Chapter 47 Personalized Video for Email: A
More Human Approach to Direct Digital
Communication
1. Choose a Simple Technology
2. Show Your Team Exactly How to Use It
Until They’re Proficient
3. Teach the Power of More Effective
Subject Lines
4. Learn How to Create the Perfect
Thumbnail
5. Stick to the “Don’t Stop” Rule
6. Leaders Must Set the Tone with Their
Internal Communications
Chapter 48 How to Hire an In-House
Videographer
Identifying Personality Traits of a
Videographer

-- 14 of 357 --

What a Good Videographer Candidate
Should Demonstrate
Extra Interview Questions for Your
Videographer Candidates
A Simple Video Assignment as Part of the
Interview Process
Chapter 49 Team Buy-In on Video,
Performance Tips, and Long-Term Success
1. Don’t Stop
2. But You Can Do It Again
3. The 3-Second Smile
The Problem with Scripts
Getting Buy-In and “Embracing the Messy”
Chapter 50 Case Study 6: How a Lifting and
Rigging Company Became the Ultimate
Example of They Ask, You Answer Success and
Culture
Mazzella’s Initial Approach to They Ask,
You Answer
Their Commitment Began to Pay Off
Mazzella’s Success Came Down to Hiring
the Right People
Why Insourcing Outperforms Outsourcing
Every Time
There Are No Silos at Mazzella
Educating Customers, Employees, and
Entire Industries
The Results
Part V How to Build the Perfect They Ask, You
Answer Website
Chapter 51 Real-Time Conversations Are
Changing How They’re Asking and We’re
Answering
The Way We Communicate Has
Fundamentally Changed

-- 15 of 357 --

What Is Conversational Marketing and
Where Did It Come From?
You Can’t Dictate the Buying Process
How to Start Conversational Marketing for
Your Business
Your Questions Answered About
Conversational Marketing
Chapter 52 Self-Selection: The Next Phase of
Search, Sales, and the Way We Buy
Wix: A Classic Case Study on Giving Buyers
What They Want in Real-Time
How to Use Self-Selection Tools for Your
Business
Common Questions Regarding Self-
Selection Tools
Chapter 53 Website Priority 1: Proper
Homepage Design and Messaging
Homepage Layout
Chapter 54 Website Priority 2: Obsess Over
Honest Education
Chapter 55 Website Priority 3: Premium
Education
Chapter 56 Website Priority 4: An Equal Mix of
Textual and Visual Content
Chapter 57 Website Priority 5: Self-Selection
Tools
Chapter 58 Website Priority 6: Social Proof
Chapter 59 Website Priority 7: Site Speed
Part VI Your Questions Answered
Chapter 60 “How Do I Find More Time to Make
This Work Within My Organization?”
Create Blog Posts from Emails That Answer
Questions Very Well
Start Talking to Yourself Out Loud. A Lot.
Participate in Blogathons or Videoathons
with Employees

-- 16 of 357 --

Hire a Content Manager Yesterday
Remember That Insourcing Is a Very Big
Deal
Learn How Each Employee Best
Communicates and Run with It
Turn on the Camera and Hit Record
Stop Doing the Thing That Does Not Bring
the Greatest Returns
Is It Really About Time, or Is Something
Else Going on Here?
Chapter 61 “How Long Will It Take They Ask,
You Answer to Work?”
Content Marketing the “Right” Way
5 Stages of Content Marketing Success
Chapter 62 “Are Content Marketing and They
Ask, You Answer Just Fads?”
What Is Content Marketing Exactly?
Chapter 63 “How Can I Keep My Team Engaged
in the Content Process?”
10 Ways to Keep Your Employees
Motivated to Participate in Content
Marketing
Chapter 64 “I’ve Been Told If We’re Not Adding
Anything New to the Conversation, Then We
Shouldn’t Be Talking About It — Is That Right?”
Chapter 65 “Can I Just Hire an Agency to Do
This for Me?”
Chapter 66 “How Can We Afford to Do This?”
Chapter 67 A Revolutionary Marketing Strategy
End of Book Resources
Appendix 1 Get Your Scorecard Grade Yourself on
They Ask, You Answer Right Now
Appendix 2 More They Ask, You Answer Resources
They Ask, You Answer Scorecard
Real-World Results
They Ask, You Answer Playbooks

-- 17 of 357 --

Recommended Digital Sales and Marketing
Software and Tools
Free Templates and Downloads
Recommended Books and Further Reading
Appendix 3 Accelerate Your They Ask, You Answer
Success with IMPACT
Consulting
Workshops
IMPACT Live
IMPACT Elite
Acknowledgments
About the Author
Index
End User License Agreement
List of Illustrations
Chapter 11
Figure 11.1 Fiberglass Pool Cost Article, “A
Guide to Fiberglass Pool Costs” by River Pools…
Chapter 23
Figure 23.1 The Triangle of Influence.
Figure 23.2 The Actual Customer
Chapter 67
Figure 67.1 River Pool and Spas Featured in the
New York Times.

-- 18 of 357 --

Foreword
“I’m just a construction worker, but when I had a
plan and we were working together, we could build a
skyscraper. Now you’re master builders, just
imagine what could happen if you did that. You could
save the universe.”
— Emmet Brickowoski, The Lego Movie
Back in 2010, I discovered something surprising. It turns
out that it’s possible for an average person to save a
struggling business and inspire a major culture change
throughout an organization. This book is about how.
How is that possible if you’re not the CEO? How do you
do it if you work remotely, like more than 1,000 miles
away from headquarters?
What if you are the youngest person on the management
team? And a female just returning from maternity leave?
Do you have to mandate it or is it possible to inspire that
sort of change?
How does an average person cut budgets, bring in more
sales, shorten the buying cycle, increase profits, get other
people to market for you, improve employee
engagement, and dramatically grow the business with a
simple four-word strategy?
Impossible, you say. Or is it?
What if I told you that it is very possible because that’s
exactly what happened?
Let me share with you a little bit about my journey.
The truth is I couldn’t have accomplished any of those
things without the help of the ideas, stories, and
strategies shared throughout this book, with Marcus
Sheridan as my guide.
Here’s how it began …
It started with an urgent problem — sales were down.
Way down. So much so that the company was shrinking.

-- 19 of 357 --

Budgets were dramatically cut, product lines were being
abandoned, and team members who were dear friends
were let go.
It was devastating.
On top of that, the industry as we knew it was changing
and buyers were increasingly more difficult to reach.
Emails weren’t getting through. Trade shows had half the
number of attendees. Mailers weren’t bringing in any
calls. And don’t even get me started on fax blasting — can
you even believe there was an era when that worked?
To top it all off, somehow even the smallest of our
competitors were showing up higher in online search
rankings.
Where had all the buyers gone? How were we going to
grow with all this stacked against us?
And who was I to think that I could do anything about it?
At that time, I was the marketing manager at Block
Imaging, a B2B that buys, sells, and refurbishes used
medical imaging equipment; everything from MRI and
CT scanners to digital X-ray equipment. Pretty unique
niche, right?
It bothered me that we were a worldwide business and
yet only 5 percent of our sales were attributed to online
inquiries. This became the single statistic that I set out to
change immediately.
This focus led me to discover a concept commonly
referred to as “inbound” or “content” marketing. I was
quickly convinced that this was the answer to our most
urgent problem. So we signed up for the software, and it
was going to be a game-changer. Marketing automation
and blogging were going to change everything, right?
I was wrong. We needed more than software. We needed
information worth sharing. And we needed a lot of it.
So I set out to connect with people in other departments
to collect information worth posting and sharing. How
hard could that be? As enthusiastic as everyone was,
here’s the gist of how most of those conversations went:

-- 20 of 357 --

“Krista, this all sounds very exciting and I cannot wait to
see what you do with it. Because I’m in sales, I’m going to
go back to selling now. Good luck with your marketing
thingy.”
New hurdle. Buy-in.
I spent the next six months trying to get buy-in and
participation. I gave presentations, offered workshops,
invited senior sales leaders to attend social selling
conferences with me, and unveiled scary statistics as
often as I could. Even after all that effort, the best
traction I could get was about two blog posts a month.
And I was sad.
Sad because I knew the information we were posting was
more brand-centric than customer-centric.
Sad because it was taking so much effort to produce sub-
par content. Sad because we were running out of time to
do this half-assed.
That’s when I made the call. It was the call that would
change everything.
I needed reinforcements and knew just the person for
the challenge.
Marcus Sheridan had been on this exact same journey of
saving a struggling small business with inbound
marketing. Even better, he had figured out the most
simple and compelling strategy imaginable that resulted
in millions of dollars in sales: They Ask, You Answer.
His story and examples were just what the Block Imaging
team needed to hear. And they needed to hear it from
him directly.
It was one of the most important phone calls in my life.
“Marcus, you don’t know me or my company yet, but
you’re my guy. I need you to come help me convince the
entire Block Imaging team that going all in with inbound
is urgent, important, and that, with their participation, it
is going to be the very best thing that ever happened to
our business.”

-- 21 of 357 --

As a result of obtaining Marcus’s help, we began co-
designing a two-day workshop to teach, inspire, and
jumpstart a new culture of inbound companywide.
Everyone from sales, engineering, leadership, human
resources, administration, project management, and
general counsel and the entire accounting team were
there.
Did it work?
Without a doubt. What I had just spent the entire
previous year trying to rally people around, Marcus
accomplished companywide in less than six hours.
He simplified the complex.
Everyone understood.
Everyone bought in.
That day marked a new era for our little organization.
We now saw ourselves as teachers, and understood that
if we just listened well and were willing to answer, things
would turn around.
We left that two-day event with 700 blog ideas and
inspired content generators in every department.
More important, we had a unified team with a clear plan
for writing a better future, both for the organization and
for ourselves. Sharing information and empowering
buyers became embedded in our culture.
We have since gone from 5 percent of sales attributed to
web leads to 40 percent of sales from web leads. In those
first two years alone, we could directly tie more than $9
million in sales to inbound website leads.
It feels like we’ve been given a second chance at life.
We can serve more people in our industry than ever
before with less stress. We have more time and energy
for our families and friends. We have fun instead of fear
and frustration. We have hope instead of helplessness.
We are proactive instead of reactive. We have a mission
instead of a position.

-- 22 of 357 --

This is why we are so excited that Marcus is now sharing
his wisdom in this book so that others like me may be
inspired and equipped to lead this same type of
transformation in their own organizations.
Because it is time.
It is time to disrupt the status quo and lead change. It is
time to grow an organization that you can be proud of
and that buyers trust. It is time to inspire growth in
meaningful ways while protecting time and space for the
ones you love the most.
It won’t be easy, but with this book you will surely push
through the challenges faster, and I guarantee it will be
worth it.
— Krista Kotrla, CMO, Block Imaging

-- 23 of 357 --

Introduction
There is a teacher within each of us.
Ever since I can remember, I’ve believed that statement
to be true.
The beauty of teaching is that, at its core, its influence
has no bounds.
If I’m being completely honest, when I wrote the first
edition of They Ask, You Answer and published it
without much fanfare and promotion at the beginning of
2017, my hope was it would at least touch a few
businesses the way it had touched my life and business
years before.
Little did I know it would transform thousands of
businesses around the globe. Since its release, the
success stories have poured in.
Everything from mom-and-pop businesses to large
brands with household names — the impact of They Ask,
You Answer has been far-reaching and, if I may be so
bold, has only scratched the surface of its potential in the
marketplace.
Today, the phrase “They Ask, You Answer” has evolved
into a business philosophy and corresponding digital
roadmap that is now being taught in public universities.
But, quite possibly, what has most pleased me is the
number of marketers who have contacted me since its
release and made such statements as:
“Marcus, finally, my sales team and I are on the same
page.”
“Marcus, I could never get buy-in from leadership until
they read your book.”
Considering the prolific problem of internal silos — sales,
marketing, leadership — in businesses around the world,
anything that could help overcome this issue is a good
thing.

-- 24 of 357 --

I wrote this book with a clear vision of helping leaders
and sales teams see digital sales and marketing
differently. To help them catch the vision of the “what,”
“how,” and “why” of what had changed, so they could
finally get buy-in, gain momentum, and achieve
astounding results in an evolving digital world.
With the success of They Ask, You Answer, as well as the
corresponding feedback from businesses, however, I’ve
realized there were gaps within the first book that
needed to be filled. For example, I barely broached the
subject of video — and its massive influence on the way
people buy — in the first edition.
Also, we didn’t answer the question, “How do you create
the perfect They Ask, You Answer website?”
(That’s something you’re going to want to do after
reading this book.)
So, in this revised version, not only will we cover these
critical subjects, but we will also “look around the turn”
at what’s coming next. Specifically, we’ll discuss what
shifts in buyer behavior and technology will be impacting
our businesses from a sales and marketing perspective in
the years ahead.
Now, just to make sure you have everything you need to
make They Ask, You Answer work for your organization,
our team at IMPACT — my 60 + person digital sales and
marketing agency — has created two comprehensive
online resources you’ll find incredibly helpful.
An entire They Ask, You Answer resource
center. You will find the best examples, tools, and
references of just about everything you will read in this
book. To find this robust resource center, visit
impactbnd.com /playbooks.
A powerful They Ask, You Answer scorecard for
your organization. By taking a few minutes to fill out
this assessment, you will receive a numerical “score” that
tells you exactly where you currently stand at your
company on following the principles of They Ask, You
Answer. Additionally, you will be given a series of
actionable recommendations that will point you in the

-- 25 of 357 --

right direction as an organization. To find your
scorecard, visit impactbnd.com/scorecard.
Finally, I’m going to do something here that may not be
scalable, but it’s important to me:
My personal email is
marcus@marcussheridan.com.
I invite you to email at any time with your thoughts,
feelings, and questions about the book.
I’m here to help and, as long as I’m not speaking from a
stage or spending a moment with my wife and four kids,
I’ll respond as quickly as possible.

-- 26 of 357 --

Part I
A Very Different Way of
Looking at Business,
Marketing, and Trust
How would you respond if I asked you, “Who is the most
trusted voice in your industry?”
Surprisingly, in most industries, such a person or
company doesn’t even exist. In the following pages, if
you truly apply what is taught herein, you’ll discover
exactly how you can become that voice.

-- 27 of 357 --

1
The Fall
I could feel the anxiety and sense of hopelessness start to
overcome me. Like every night at this time, driving home
from a long day of work, I dialed my phone and waited
for the bank’s automated system to tell me what our
company’s checking account balance was.
With heart racing, the response was not surprising.
Overdrawn.
Why was I even checking at this point? Our company
bank account had been overdrawn for the past two
weeks.
For some reason, though, I still dialed that stupid
number and held out a faint hope that we were in a
better situation than what reality demonstrated.
After hanging up the phone and feeling the weight of the
world on my shoulders, I started to cry.
I was 31 years old. My business was a failure. My family
life was suffering. And for a guy who sees himself as a
problem-solver, I was out of answers.
So the tears kept flowing.
I knew that, when I arrived home in a few minutes, my
wife, Nikki, would likely not even ask me the standard
question, “So how was work today?”
You see, some questions in life are better off not being
asked. My wife understood that. She’d gotten used to
seeing the strain in my eyes and the worry in my
countenance. The pain was self-evident.
Such was the life of a pool guy in January 2009 …
How I Became a “Pool Guy”

-- 28 of 357 --

Upon graduating from West Virginia University in 2001,
my plan was simple: get an interview and get a job.
By this point in my life, I was already married and had
my first child, Danielle (eventually, we’d have four
children).
Initially, my plan worked out. I identified a company that
I thought would be a great fit, got an interview, and was
offered the job immediately. Nikki and I loaded our
daughter in the car seat, along with the few belongings
we owned in a U-Haul, and headed off to live near
Washington, D.C., as I would work in the northern
Virginia town of Vienna.
Unfortunately, it didn’t take long for me to realize I
wasn’t thrilled about my new job. To make matters
worse, my wife hated Washington, D.C., traffic. So before
we entrenched ourselves too deeply, we left the area and
headed back to the area where we grew up—the
“Northern Neck” of Virginia—in order to regroup and
figure out what our next step would be.
It was during this time that two of my good friends, Jim
Spiess and Jason Hughes, had just started a swimming
pool company—River Pools and Spas—and were in the
process of opening a small retail store (selling hot tubs,
swimming pool supplies, and so on) in the quaint town
of Warsaw, Virginia.
Knowing they needed someone to run the retail location
while they installed above-ground and in-ground
swimming pools for customers, Jim and Jason asked me
if I’d consider managing the store.
My response should give you a good feel for where my
mind was at the time: “Sure, I’m happy to help you guys
get going until I find out where I’ll be working next.”
It’s a statement that makes me chuckle to this day.
You see, no one ever says, “I want to be a pool guy when I
grow up.”
I certainly never saw myself with this title when I was
younger, or when I graduated from college. But life is a
funny thing.

-- 29 of 357 --

As soon as I started at River Pools, I quickly realized I
didn’t know much about the industry. Simply “knowing
how to swim” wasn’t going to help me sell hot tubs, pool
chemicals, and the like.
So I did what I always do—I learned. I read. I studied. I
dug deep into the industry. I didn’t know how long I was
going to be a pool guy, but I did know I didn’t want to
look dumb in front of customers.
Before long, I started to know a lot about pools and spas.
In fact, when Jim and Jason would come into the store, I
would quiz them on hot tub brands, distinguishing
features, key components, and other subjects. It didn’t
take them long to realize I suddenly knew a lot about the
stuff we sold. Customers, too, could see that, if they had a
question, I generally had an answer. And if I didn’t have
it, it would bother me so much that I’d assuredly study it
so as to better respond on the next occasion.
It was for this reason that Jim and Jason believed I
would be the ideal third partner in the business, asking
me at the six-month mark whether I would join their
team for good.
Having no idea the impact this invitation would have on
my life, I simply responded, “Yes.”
That was the year 2001.
2001 to 2008: The False Economy
Growing a business is never an easy thing to do. It
doesn’t matter the field, or the industry, or the area—it
isn’t easy.
Nor was it easy in the early years of River Pools and
Spas.
There were victories, and there were defeats.
There were many good days and many bad ones as well.
But one thing is for sure—the economy of the United
States during these years (specifically, the housing
market) made it so anyone in the home improvement

-- 30 of 357 --

industry could grow a business and make a decent living,
even if they weren’t particularly good at what they did.
For River Pools and Spas, the strong economy meant
that home values were bloating to ridiculous levels,
which therefore enabled almost anyone (if you had a
heartbeat, you qualified) to get a second mortgage or a
home equity line.
In other words, for the first seven and a half years of the
2000s, anyone could get a loan for a swimming pool.
If you (the pool guy) could sell it, they (the homeowners)
would find someone to give them the money for it.
Looking back, it doesn’t speak too highly of our country’s
economic system, but it was what it was. And everyone
was a part of it, present party included.
2008: The Wheels Start to Fall Off
The year 2008 started off with so much promise. Our
company had been through more than our share of ups
and downs, and I was invigorated with the prospect of
having a banner year.
Finally, it looked like we were going to turn the corner
and generate sufficient revenue to go into the offseason
with enough savings in the bank. (In Virginia, the main
sales season for swimming pool companies is March to
September.)
By mid-summer of that year, sales were higher than
they’d ever been. I can remember looking at the calendar
thinking, “Wow, we have two months’ worth of pools
sold that need to be installed—this is amazing!”
But then, like a sudden earthquake that no one is
prepared for, in September of that year, our country’s
economic system collapsed.
Lehman Brothers went belly up.
The Dow crashed.
John McCain and Barack Obama were on the campaign
trail debating what should be done with the failing

-- 31 of 357 --

banks.
It was a chain reaction that seemed to grow worse and
worse every day.
In fact, within 48 hours of the Dow’s crash, we at River
Pools and Spas had five customers who had put down
deposits to have a pool installed during the winter
months essentially tell us, “We’re too worried about the
economy and cannot move forward with our swimming
pool project.”
With the average pool installation cost being in the
$50,000 range, this equated to roughly $250,000 in
losses, all within 48 hours.
To say it was a huge blow would be an understatement.
Over the coming months, things went from bad to worse.
Our savings, and then our credit, were completely
depleted.
By December 2008, we had to tell our employees to stay
at home because there was no work to be done.
By January 2009, our business checking account was
overdrawn.
Things got so bad that my business partners and I met
with multiple business consultants, only to be told, for all
intents and purposes, that it was the end of the road for
River Pools and Spas
It was time to file bankruptcy.
This pill was a difficult one to swallow. We had given that
little swimming pool company everything we had over
the previous eight years, and now we were going to not
only lose it, but also our homes, our credit, and our
foreseeable financial future.
And so there I was, crying in my car that late night in
January 2009—account overdrawn, employees sitting at
home, and staring bankruptcy square in the face.
No doubt, it was a dark and difficult time in my life.

-- 32 of 357 --

2
A Massive Buying Shift and the Blur
Between Sales and Marketing
Before we move on with the fall and, ultimately, the rise
of River Pools and Spas, it’s critical we address a couple
of fundamental truths that, unless understood and
embraced, will prevent you from getting anything out of
this book whatsoever.
The first is this: Consumer buying patterns have gone
through a monumental shift over the past decade.
Specifically, the line between “sales” and “marketing” has
been completely blurred, if not totally erased.
Multiple recent studies have shown one specific eye-
popping statistic: Today, on average, 70 percent of the
buying decision is made before a prospect talks to the
company.
Yep, 70 percent.
In other words, before the sales pro ever enters the fray,
70 percent of the buying decision has already been made
by the consumer.
And if you’re thinking this is a business-to-consumer
study (B2C), you’re wrong. In fact, originally, this was a
business-to-business (B2B) study.
Simply put, the 70 percent number resonates across the
board regardless of business type, size, location, and so
on.
Let’s take a minute to analyze what this all means.
If we went back a decade or so and asked what
percentage of the buying decision was made before
someone actually talked to the company, what do you
think the number would have been?
Most folks would estimate between 20 and 40 percent,
as would I.

-- 33 of 357 --

So if we go with this number and were at 20 to 40
percent a decade ago, yet find ourselves at 70 percent
today, what’s the number going to be during the next
decade?
Eighty percent?
Ninety percent?
One hundred percent?
Furthermore, let’s swallow an even greater pill, one that
is weighing on businesses and brands all over the globe:
If this shift is true, which department of your
organization has a greater impact on the actual sale? Is it
the sales department or the marketing department?
Yep, marketing.
But, generally speaking, when a company is in financial
trouble, which is the first department that gets laid off?
Once again, marketing.
And when a company is looking to grow the business,
which is the first to be hired?
Sales.
So the question is: Why are we doing it this way?
Because, as I’m sure you’d agree, we’ve been doing it this
way for well over 100 years.
Sales, in the past, was always viewed as the revenue
driver.
Marketing was the expense.
But no longer are we able to say this.
And no longer can businesses and brands continue to do
things the way they’ve always been done. In fact, as we
are thrust into the digital age, it’s the ones who aren’t
doing business as it has always been done who are
experiencing the greatest success.
Again and again, as we look around the marketplace,
businesses and brands are breaking the rules and defying
industry norms to create new rules of doing business.

-- 34 of 357 --

Zappos did this when they said consumers could ship
their shoes back at no cost. At the time, their competitors
scoffed. Today, they’re all following suit.
Zappos changed the rules.
CarMax, a company we discuss later in this book,
revolutionized the used car industry.
How did they do it? As you’ll learn, they simply listened
to what consumers wanted … and acted on it, regardless
of whether those in their industry thought it possible or
not.
Again, CarMax changed the rules.
The list of examples could go on and on, but the
commonality across these companies would remain the
same. They clearly understood consumers had changed,
and they knew they had to react or get left behind.
The simple fact is, sales and marketing will never be the
same, and the line between them will only become more
and more blurred over time.
And anything that you and I think must be sold face-to-
face will eventually be sold online.
Scary?
Yeah, I guess you could see it that way. Or you could see
it as a major opportunity, just as so many businesses
have done while experiencing extraordinary results.
Case in point, just last year, my swimming pool company
sold multiple swimming pools that were more than
$100,000 … before we ever set foot in the customer’s
homes.
Had you told me this was possible just five years ago, I
would have laughed in your face.
Today, I realize I was naïve.
In fact, I’m not sure any of us fathom just how much
consumerism and buyer patterns are going to change in
the coming years.
But this much I know:

-- 35 of 357 --

If you adhere to what you read in the following pages,
you’ll at least be prepared for what comes next, whatever
that may be.

-- 36 of 357 --

3
This Book Won’t Work for You If …
As mentioned in the previous chapter, two things will
dramatically affect whether this book has a positive effect
on you and your business.
The first, which we just discussed, is the shift in
consumer buying patterns and how it has affected sales
and marketing as we know it. If you do not believe there
is a change in the way buyers behave, there really is
no reason to continue reading at this point.
The second element that will affect what you get out of
this book is much more personal, and it comes down to a
specific mindset.
You see, as I travel the world and speak on the future of
sales and marketing—and what businesses must do to be
prepared for said future—I find there are two types of
people. (And you’ve likely also seen these types time and
time again.)
The first type of person (or business), when they hear a
new idea, suggestion, or business strategy, responds
with:
“Sure, I can see how that’s possible.”
“I think we might be able to apply that to our business.”
“I could see how that would be used within our
industry.”
And the second, as you may have guessed, is the opposite
of the first.
“Nope. Won’t work.”
“Couldn’t be done.”
“That’s not how our customers buy in our industry.”
And on and on.

-- 37 of 357 --

For the latter, the reason for such a mindset is simple,
and it comes down to one somewhat comical (and sad)
belief:
“But you see, Marcus, the stuff you’re talking about here
may have worked for you and your swimming pool
businesses, but at my company, we’re different.”
Ah yes, the “We’re different” phenomenon.
Funny thing is, I’ve polled live audiences all over the
world, asking thousands of people this one simple
question: “How many of you, by a show of hands, believe
your business is quite different from the rest of those in
the room?”
And what do you think the results of this question are?
If you guessed 100 percent, you’re right.
Everyone thinks his or her business is different.
Everyone.
Oddly, no one ever says, “Actually, Marcus, we’re just
like that company over there.”
If one looks at the psychology of this response, the
reason why 100 percent of people truly believe their
businesses are different is because they want to feel
special.
Whether we want to admit it to ourselves or not, this
need to feel special runs deep in the world of business.
But that’s the thing. We’re not special. At least we’re not
special in the most fundamental sort of the word. Case in
point, when I was busy leading the life of a pool guy, my
business and sales successes were, ultimately, built on
one thing: consumer (buyer) trust.
Then, after I moved on from being full-time with River
Pools and Spas (to become what is today a silent partner)
and started my digital sales and marketing company,
which merged with IMPACT (impactbnd.com) in 2018,
once again, I found my business and sales successes were
built on that same factor: trust.

-- 38 of 357 --

The fact is, every business has a single tie that binds
them all together when it comes to consumers and
buyers, and that is trust. And the companies that
embrace this reality, and let go of the obsession that
“we’re different” are often the ones doing incredible
things in their space.
To further make this point, my digital sales and
marketing company, IMPACT, has worked with
hundreds of businesses and brands all over the world to
help them adjust to today’s buyer. More than half of
these organizations have been B2B. Many have been
serviced-based. But for each one of them, the big picture
doesn’t change.
We obsess over gaining buyer trust, no matter what title
the person has on the other end. In fact, you’ll see many
of their case studies throughout this book.
This is my challenge to you: This book will certainly, at
times, challenge the way you have done business in your
space or industry. When this occurs, don’t push aside
what is being suggested and automatically dismiss its
merits. Instead, ask yourself the simple question, “But is
it possible?”
If you do, I can promise you the information found
within these pages will have a dramatic impact on your
business—and perhaps even your life.
Whether you’re B2B or B2C or a non-profit, local or
national, service or product, or whether you’re big or
small, don’t put yourself in the “different” corner.
Bring it back to the basics. Bring it back to trust.
Trust is the business we’re all in.
This will never change.

-- 39 of 357 --

4
The Discovery of They Ask, You
Answer
There we were, on the brink of financial ruin.
If we were going to save the company, we needed a
miracle, and it had better occur fast. Unless we found a
way to garner more leads and sales than we’d ever had—
even though there were fewer potential buyers (because
of the economy) than ever before—we were going to go
out of business within a matter of months.
Despite this crushing weight, I found myself having
moments of reflection about the state of business and
economics in general. I believed that times were
changing. The way people were buying, shopping, and
consuming was dramatically different than it had been
just a few years before. All I had to do was look in the
mirror to see this change.
I was now turning to the internet for everything. If I had
a question, I went to Google and asked. No longer did I
need to be an uninformed consumer for anything. Now I
had all the knowledge I needed at my fingertips to
become an expert at anything I wanted to master.
If I wanted to find a product or company reviews, tips,
tricks, or anything else—it was all there. It was almost as
if every consumer was becoming his or her own
salesperson or subject matter expert.
They were fascinating times indeed—for me personally,
as well. Despite all the stress I was under, I could not
stop thinking about the digital opportunities that seemed
to be available to any and every business that was willing
to notice.
It was clear as day to me that the internet was going to
change the world and dominate our lives way beyond
what I could even fathom. Over the previous years, I’d

-- 40 of 357 --

sensed this stronger and stronger and stronger. The “old-
school” way of advertising wasn’t working anymore.
In the past, we had tried everything to generate leads at
River Pools—TV, radio, newspaper, the Yellow Pages—
you name it. Every year we’d spend hundreds and
thousands of dollars to advertise on these media
platforms. And every year their efficacy was diminishing
exponentially.
Seeing this changing of the guard and knowing things
would never go back to the way they were, I knew I had
to do something about this problem—and do it quickly.
If my business partners and I were going to save the
company, it was time to get our arms around this whole
internet thing and discover how it could save River Pools
and Spas from bankruptcy.
So I threw myself in.
Every extra minute of the day I had, I started reading
about how to leverage the internet to grow our business.
As I read articles and watched educational videos (the
majority of which I learned on the site HubSpot.com), I
noticed certain phrases popping up with great frequency,
all of which were quite new to me:
Inbound marketing
Content marketing
Social media marketing
Digital marketing
Blogging
And many others
They were fancy words and terms, and their definitions
included a whole lot of marketing-speak that was frankly
above this pool guy’s head. But, if I may be completely
transparent here, I think that’s what saved me. I didn’t
view the internet from an MBA’s standpoint. I didn’t
have years of formal business, sales, or marketing
education. Rather, I saw it from a consumer’s mindset.

-- 41 of 357 --

“Inbound marketing,” as I understood it, was simply the
process of attracting (instead of chasing) customers.
And “content marketing” was simply the act of teaching
and problem solving to earn buyer trust.
This basic way of thinking, in hindsight, was a massive
advantage.
And to me, as I read all of these fancy words,
suggestions, and strategies, it all came back to one core
thought:
“Marcus, just answer people’s questions.”
“OK,” I thought, “I can do that.”
After all, that’s really what I am at heart—a teacher.
And so all we had to do as a company was become a
teacher of fiberglass swimming pools. Once we came to
this realization, our company motto shifted dramatically.
Little did I know that this shift, and the new motto,
would go on to affect businesses all over the world.
But it did. And it still does every day.
And as you’ve likely guessed, the motto was:
They Ask, You Answer.

-- 42 of 357 --

5
They Ask, You Answer Defined
What is “They Ask, You Answer”?
More than anything, it’s a business philosophy.
It’s an approach to communication, company culture,
and the way we sell as a business.
It starts with an obsession: “What is my customer
thinking?”
And when I say “obsession,” I really mean that. It
extends past “What are they thinking?” to “What are they
searching, asking, feeling, and fearing?”
Some companies think they understand these questions,
but the fact is most do not.
And having a set of defined “buyer personas”—at least
the way many are defined—doesn’t count as sufficient
either.
When an organization embraces They Ask, You Answer,
they believe it’s their duty to be the teacher, the go-to
source within their particular industry. One that’s not
afraid to answer any and every question the prospect or
customer may have. For them, it’s a moral obligation to
provide this level of education, regardless of whether the
question is perceived as good, bad, or even ugly.
Not only are they willing to address these things better
than anyone in their space, but they also allow this to
dictate the direction of their business as the future
unfolds. Because they are so keenly in tune with what the
marketplace is thinking, feeling, and asking, they see
where their business model needs to go, evolve, and head
toward.
Throughout the remainder of this book, we cover—
extensively—this philosophy of They Ask, You Answer.
You’re going to not only understand its dramatic impact
on River Pools and Spas, but you’re also going to witness

-- 43 of 357 --

its impact on multiple companies from various B2C and
B2B industries around the world.
You’ll also see how this philosophy extends far beyond
the scope of “internet marketing” and transcends every
element of your business philosophy. From online
marketing and face-to-face selling to company branding,
this is a way of doing business that could revolutionize
everything about your company, your culture, and your
bottom line.
In Part 1 of the book, we look at They Ask, You Answer
and its impact on your digital marketing efforts. In
particular, we focus on how it guides a company’s
“inbound” or “content” marketing efforts. (For the sake
of ease, these words are used interchangeably
throughout the rest of this book.)
In Part 2, we discuss how They Ask, You Answer affects
the sales side of the business—the way you sell, your
sales culture, and the way sales departments are set up in
general.
In Part 3, we examine the implementation of this
methodology in your business, showing you the who,
what, where, when, why, and how to make it all work.
In Part 4, we take a deep dive into creating a culture of
video within your organization and turning video into an
essential sales tool going forward.
In Part 5, we show how to create the perfect They Ask,
You Answer website. We also look ahead to trends and
technology that will be affecting all of us as businesses
moving forward.
Finally, in Part 6 of the book, we take some of the
commonly asked questions most organizations have
upon hearing this approach to business and answer each
one to resolve any concerns and fill in any knowledge
gaps you may have.
We hope it will be the finishing touch to taking your
business and brand—regardless of type, size, or industry
—to a place of strength for years and years to come.

-- 44 of 357 --

6
Brainstorming the Questions You Are
Asked Every Day
Now that I’d discovered the core business philosophy
we’d be adhering to as we moved forward with River
Pools and Spas, it was time to act.
My first action was simple: I sat down at my kitchen
table late one night and brainstormed all the questions
I’d received about fiberglass swimming pools over the
previous nine years.
As you might imagine, the writing was fast and furious.
After all, I sold swimming pools for a living. I heard
questions from prospects and customers all day long, so
the idea of simply recalling these questions was by no
means difficult.
After about thirty minutes, I had more than 100
questions listed on the paper.
Wow.
But what happened next is where things became very
interesting. I (along with two of my business partners)
took those questions and, over the coming months—late
at night when everyone in my house was asleep—we
wrote articles or made videos answering every single one
of them.
Most of these articles were published to our website as
blog articles, with the question itself becoming the title of
the post. The videos produced were uploaded to
YouTube and placed on the website.
For me, this whole process became somewhat of a
religion. If I was on a sales appointment, as soon as the
prospect would ask me a question my immediate thought
was: “Have I answered that on our website yet?”
Keep in mind, I’m not talking here about one- or two-
sentence answers to questions. I’m talking about really

-- 45 of 357 --

answering the question with deep explanations. And we
approached each question with a “teacher’s” mentality,
without bias—our sole obsession was simply one of
thoroughly educating the reader.
At the time, I had no idea this little brainstorming
activity and corresponding content production would
end up being something I’d use to help guide numerous
other sales and marketing teams. I never could have
imagined that during the coming years so many other
businesses around the globe would embrace their own
forms of They Ask, You Answer.
The fact is, every industry has hundreds of questions
about what prospects and customers want to know when
they’re making a buying decision. Whether it’s B2B or
B2C, people want to feel like they’ve made an informed
buying decision, and they certainly don’t want to make
any mistakes.
The irony is that despite the hundreds of questions that
exist in these industries, most company websites don’t
even address more than a few dozen of these them.
It’s a digital paradox of sorts.
As consumers, we expect to be fed great information.
As businesses, we like to talk about ourselves and
therefore don’t focus on what our prospects and
customers are thinking about, worrying about, and
asking about.
The whole thing is contrary to the very nature of that
which we call “building trust.”
This brings us to the first major step of They Ask, You
Answer.
Putting It into Action
Have a Brainstorming Session
Brainstorm every question you’ve ever been asked by a
prospect or customer. Focus on their fears, issues,
concerns, and worries. State them on paper exactly as

-- 46 of 357 --

the buyer would ask (or search) them, not the way you
(as the business) would state them.
Once you’ve completed this list, you have the foundation
for your entire digital marketing editorial calendar—be it
articles, videos, podcasts, and so on—to put on your
company website.
Note: If you struggle coming up with these questions,
there’s a frank reason why—you’ve lost touch with your
ideal customer or client.
If this is the case, it’s time to get with your sales team,
customer service team, and everyone else, and relearn
what your ideal customer wants to know to be able to
make an informed buying decision.

-- 47 of 357 --

7
The Ostrich Marketing Strategy
Before we dive into They Ask, You Answer, it’s important
to note another sales and marketing strategy—one you
likely weren’t taught in business school (but is
commonplace around the world today) that is the literal
opposite of They Ask, You Answer. I call it “ostrich
marketing.”
Why is it called ostrich marketing? When an ostrich has
a problem, what does it do? It buries its head in the sand.
(Yes, it is a myth, but we’ll go with it anyway.)
And why does it bury its head in the sand? Because it
thinks the problem will go away.
But does the problem ever go away? Of course, the
answer is no.
Now, you’re probably wondering what an ostrich has to
do with you, your business, and the way you
communicate online and offline.
Look at it this way—how many times have you been
asked a question by a prospect or customer and thought
to yourself: “We’d better not address that issue on our
website. Let’s just wait until we are talking face-to-face
with the prospect and then, if he or she asks about it, we
can bring it up.”
My guess is this has happened to you many times. And if
you can’t think of an example (of the subjects you’ve
ignored), you will. As you read the following pages, you’ll
find many examples of subjects you have very likely
shied away from talking about on your website in the
past simply because you thought it would put you at a
disadvantage, and you wanted to be able to control the
conversation.
But therein lies the entire problem with ostrich
marketing—consumers (just like you and me) don’t like
it. To put it more bluntly, we abhor it.

-- 48 of 357 --

Here are the facts about ostrich marketing (or ignoring
the questions of your prospects and customers):
In the digital age, the ostrich does not win.
The ostrich does not engender trust.
The ostrich does not get the phone call, the store
visit, or the online purchase.
The ostrich does not get anyone filling out contact
forms on his or her website.
The solution? Don’t be the ostrich. Do whatever it takes
to earn their trust.
Embrace They Ask, You Answer.

-- 49 of 357 --

8
The CarMax Effect
To truly understand They Ask, You Answer, you must see
that it goes well beyond the scope of “Let’s produce
articles and videos on our website to answer customer
questions.”
In fact, as previously mentioned, They Ask, You Answer
is a business philosophy. It’s the willingness to be so
focused on and obsessed with consumer questions,
wants, desires, and needs that you’re willing to change
and evolve your entire business model around these
elements.
To understand this on a deeper level, let’s talk about a
subject that, without fail, elicits a unique emotion from
consumers: buying a used car.
When you hear the phrase “buy a used car” or “used car
salesperson,” what is the emotion you experience? What
words come to mind?
Sleazy?
Sales-y?
High pressure?
The list goes on and on.
Consumers all over the world share these same negative
thoughts. Having spoken to audiences in multiple
continents and across different cultures, I can assure you
that no one ever shouts, “Trustworthy!” when I ask this
question.
This phenomenon begs the question, how did the used
car industry get to this point? What happened to make so
many consumers around the world lose trust in an entire
industry?
To answer this question, let’s look at the specifics.

-- 50 of 357 --

If you were going to go out and buy a used car today,
what would be some of your (potential) fears?
Across hundreds of global audiences, the answers are
almost always the same:
You don’t want to buy a lemon. (You don’t want a
car with a bunch of problems, false mileage, bad
history, and so on.)
You don’t want to have to haggle with the
salesperson—the high-pressure sales tactics, back
and forth with the sales manager, etc.
You want to make sure you’re getting a good value
and not being ripped off.
You don’t want to buy the car and then find out it’s
the wrong vehicle for you—a.k.a., buyer’s remorse.
For years, consumers have had these fears when buying a
used car, but few companies cared about addressing
them.
That is, until CarMax came along.
The Beginnings of CarMax and a
New Way to Sell
The story of CarMax is a powerful one. Based out of
Richmond, Virginia, this company went from being
doubted by an entire industry of peers to becoming what
is today the largest retailer of used vehicles in the United
States. Now, you may not think that this fact is profound
until you analyze what they did to reach the pinnacle of
their industry.
Essentially, CarMax did two things other used car
companies weren’t willing (at least at the time) to do:
Admit their industry had a problem (no consumer
trust).
Ask themselves what it would take to earn that trust
back.

-- 51 of 357 --

You see, most businesses and brands never like to admit
there is anything wrong with their company, industry, or
the way business is generally done. Instead, much like
the ostrich, they simply convince themselves it’s business
as usual—ultimately, ignoring needed change.
But CarMax was the antithesis of the “business as usual”
paradigm.
Specifically, they did what almost no one else was willing
to do.
The first action they took to garner trust back from
consumers was to attack the issue of “I don’t want to deal
with the salesperson” head on by offering what they
referred to as “no-haggle pricing.” In other words, with
no-haggle pricing, consumers were given one listed price
for the vehicles, nothing more, nothing less.
For example, if you walk into a CarMax today and write a
check for $29,999 on a car that’s listed for $30,000—
they will not sell you the vehicle unless you come up with
another dollar.
Some might argue this hurts CarMax’s ability to create
urgency and scarcity with the buyer, but the opposite is
true. Consumers love the fact they have but one number
(price) to focus on, ultimately lowering their anxiety
levels while phenomenally boosting trust for the brand in
the process.
But CarMax didn’t stop there. Beyond offering one price,
they also set up their sales team on a flat-rate, one-
commission structure—meaning whether they sold the
most expensive or the least expensive car on the lot, they
would get the same commission.
As you might imagine, by doing this, CarMax has
eliminated salespeople’s need to think about themselves
(wanting a higher commission) over the consumer
(finding the right vehicle based on need)—ultimately
leading to dramatically more trust during the buying
process because customers believe the company, and the
salesperson, have their best interest at heart.

-- 52 of 357 --

Even though competitors originally scorned this sales
philosophy at CarMax, the result was groundbreaking,
and in the process, CarMax overcame the issue of
salesperson distrust—the biggest plague facing their
entire industry.
But CarMax continued to take things further. They
recognized other fears consumers had and again sought
to eliminate them—regardless of the way it had
previously been done in the industry.
Their next groundbreaking move came when they started
offering a five-day money-back guarantee to customers.
In other words, if you bought a car from CarMax and
realized during that first week the vehicle was not a good
fit for you (for whatever reason), they’d take the car back.
At the time of offering this, the idea of a five-day money-
back guarantee was, for most car dealers, preposterous.
In fact, to this day, in many countries the idea is still
foreign and unheard of.
But because CarMax was building a consumer-centric
business philosophy (that permeated every facet of their
company), they simply didn’t care whether other
companies were or were not offering this type of
guarantee.
The end result?
Once again they were able to overcome, and practically
eliminate, one of the biggest fears in buying a used car—
buyer’s remorse.
Another groundbreaking CarMax move was how they
turned their attention to quality control. Instead of
following the traditional pattern of selling vehicles with
previous issues or problems in an effort to net huge
profits, they took the necessary steps to ensure they
could limit these issues to the best of their ability.
To give you a sense of this, if you walk into a CarMax as a
consumer today, one of the first questions they are going
to ask you is “Are you familiar with the process by which
our vehicles qualify to be sold on our lot?”

-- 53 of 357 --

Their next action is critical for building trust in that they
take the time to physically show you the intensive
inspection process their cars have to go through in order
to meet their vehicle standards. Furthermore, they want
you to see how the majority (roughly 66 percent) of the
vehicles they buy (in trade-ins or straight from
consumers) never make it to the sales lot.
You have likely heard auto dealers brag on their
commercials or websites about their “90-point (or
thereabouts) inspection process” to ensure vehicle
quality. Although CarMax may not have started this
trend, they were certainly one of the first to physically
show each of these inspection points to their potential
customers.
After all, seeing is believing.
You see, in business, just talking about something isn’t
enough. If you truly want to overcome concerns and
make your point real, you need to show it. You must
teach it. And you certainly must be willing to address it.
In our digital and visual world, one thing is for certain:
If you don’t show it, it doesn’t exist.
Saying “We have great customer service” is likely said by
everyone else in your industry. And if everyone is saying
it, you can be assured it means nothing to the consumer
—that is, until you show it.
The same goes for every other overused business
adjective that typically litters business copy, slogans, and
website messaging.
CarMax proved this point by physically showing
customers their vehicle inspection system. Furthermore,
they were one of the first brands to add a CarFax vehicle
history report as a standard with all their vehicles—
allowing the prospective buyer to see a vehicle’s history,
once again eliminating seeds of doubt and adding further
confidence for the buyer.
As you might imagine, between demonstrating their
intensive vehicle inspection process and showing the

-- 54 of 357 --

vehicle history report, CarMax was able to overcome a
third major consumer fear: the fear of buying a lemon.
At this point, CarMax has now eliminated three major
fears of buying a used vehicle:
Dealing with the salesperson
Buyer’s remorse
Buying a lemon
As mentioned earlier, there is only one more consumer
concern left:
Not getting ripped off (or wanting to get great value,
which is essentially the same thing).
And how did CarMax overcome that fear? Well, the
answer is simple. Besides listing the Kelley Blue Book
value with all their vehicles, they did the other things you
read above.
By taking these steps, CarMax allowed the consumer to
sense the extreme value. In this case, it’s the value of
trust, which is the entire reason for the rise or fall of any
brand and business.
But imagine for a second that you went back in time 20
years and were tasked with speaking to a group of 100
used car professionals on how to increase sales and
revenue with their businesses. Now imagine telling them
that the key to their future success would be found by
offering no-haggle pricing, a five-day money-back
guarantee, an intensive inspection process with the goal
of never selling a lemon again, and a way for consumers
to trust in the value of the car.
How do you think that audience would have responded
to such recommendations?
Yep, they likely would have thrown you out of the room.
And the reason they would have thrown you out is
because such recommendations were practically heresy
two decades ago. In fact, there was a time when used car
companies laughed at the CarMax business model.

-- 55 of 357 --

But today, these same companies have now had to
change their business models to match that of CarMax’s.
You see, every industry is made up of two groups: those
who listen to the consumer and act (They Ask, You
Answer), and those who maintain the status quo.
But time and time again, history has shown us that those
who listen to the consumer and change their business
models—regardless of what others may say—set the
standard for their space. They become the rule makers.
And the competition? Well, they become the rule
followers.
I hope you can clearly see that the amazing story of
CarMax can be applied to any industry—regardless of
B2B status, B2C status, size, locality, and so on.
In fact, with many of our clients (spread across multiple
industries) at my company, IMPACT, we’ve applied this
“CarMax Effect” again and again, often with astounding
results.
Simply put, the greatest companies and modern-day rule
makers are obsessed with consumer fear, and they allow
that fear to dictate their entire business models. They do
this because they know that if they are able to eliminate
all fears and negative emotions from the buying process,
the only emotion left to feel is trust. And trust, quite
frankly, is really what this book (and being in business)
is all about.
Uber did this in the transportation space by rating
drivers and coming up with dramatically more customer-
friendly ways of transportation.
Zappos did this in the clothing space by offering free
returns.
The examples go on and on, but the principle remains
the same.
Consumers ask for it, smart businesses answer it—and
often change history in the process.
I’ll share one last story about CarMax, one that would be
hard to believe if I hadn’t been there myself.

-- 56 of 357 --

In early 2016, I found myself speaking to a company in
Houston, Texas, telling them the story of CarMax. When
I was done, the owner of the company stood up and
stated:
“I agree with everything Marcus has said. In fact, I once
bought a car (a Porsche even!) from CarMax but ended
up returning it the first week. Why did I return it? Well,
my dog didn’t like it and couldn’t seem to get
comfortable, and that’s exactly what I told the company
when I returned the vehicle. I didn’t believe they’d
actually refund my money until I saw a check in the mail
for the full amount four days later.”
I told you the story was crazy.
But such is the stuff legendary companies are made of.
Well done, CarMax.
Putting It into Action
Have a Healthy Relationship with Fear
Allow it to guide your business.
The following activity, albeit incredibly simple, can do
wonders for your business, so give it a try. I’ve done this
with multiple organizations to produce profound results.
Just as we did with used cars, take a moment to
brainstorm every single reason (fear, worry, question,
concern) as to why someone would not buy from your
company. What would hold them back? What would
keep them from clicking “buy,” swiping their credit card,
or writing that big check?
If you do this activity properly (especially if you do it
with fellow employees), you should come up with ten to
20 reasons, if not more (sadly, a surprising number of
businesses struggle with this one small task, all because
they’ve lost touch with the most important part of their
business: what the potential customer is thinking).
Once you’ve listed each of these fears or reasons for not
buying, now comes the critical step: How many of these

-- 57 of 357 --

issues (fears, worries, concerns, questions, objections,
and others) have already been addressed well (a few
sentences don’t count) on your company website?
How many have been addressed within your sales
process?
(Seriously, take the time to do this activity. If you don’t,
you’re going to not only miss the whole point, but you’ll
also miss a chance to discover some very interesting
things about your business.)
If you’re like the majority of the brands and businesses
I’ve consulted with, when it comes to your website, the
answer is almost always between 10 and 20 percent of
the issues.
In other words, the majority of companies never take the
time to properly address the biggest fears of their buyers
(and leave it to the face-to-face part of the sales process
to overcome these objections), and it’s costing businesses
millions of dollars each year.
So the question is, is it possible for you to address, and
even eliminate, all of those issues you wrote down?
Find a way to do this, and you’ll likely revolutionize your
industry and innovate in ways you previously had not
imagined.
But it all starts with an obsession with knowing their
objections, and then being willing to do something about
them.
This is They Ask, You Answer.

-- 58 of 357 --

9
The Discovery of The Big 5
Within a couple of months after commencing They Ask,
You Answer on the River Pools and Spas website, I could
see that what we were doing was already making a
difference.
By publishing four to five pieces of content each week on
our site, it seemed like searchers (those people looking
for swimming pools) and search engines like Google
were clearly taking notice.
We were getting more web traffic.
Leads started to increase, many of whom were more
educated and qualified because of the content they had
read and consumed.
Even a few sales were being made.
Although we weren’t breaking the bank, and even though
we (and the economy) had a long way to go, there was
real progress.
It was exciting.
After about six months of They Ask, You Answer, I took
the time to take a deep dive into our web analytics in an
effort to pick up on any patterns that may have been
occurring. Essentially, I wanted to know what was
working, what wasn’t working, and the types of content
that were getting the most traction and results.
What I discovered was profound.
Basically, there were five types of content subjects (or
types of questions) that seemed to move the needle with
readers more than anything else, ultimately rendering
the greatest amount of traffic, conversions, leads, and
sales. These five subjects were as follows:
Pricing and costs
Problems

-- 59 of 357 --

Versus and comparisons
Reviews
Best in class
At the time, I didn’t realize that these five subjects
weren’t at all specific to the swimming pool industry.
Rather, these are the five main subjects consumers and
businesses research the most whenever they’re getting
ready to make a purchasing decision.
As mentioned multiple times already, what I’m
explaining here is not a B2B or B2C issue. It’s all-
encompassing, as our studies have shown time and time
again.
Once I realized how these five subjects transcend all
industries, I dubbed them “The Big 5,” and their
influence remains as great as it has ever been.
But there is an interesting difference between how
businesses and consumers approach The Big 5.
As consumers, we often obsess over these five subjects
when considering a purchase.
As businesses, we generally ignore or even hide from
these questions, hoping they’ll magically go away or,
worst case, willing to address them only when we are
face-to-face with the prospect or buyer.
In other words, we’re experiencing a literal paradox of
business strategy, while essentially not doing unto others
as we would have them do unto us.
Although you may be confused about how to understand
and implement The Big 5 in your business, the following
chapters cover each individually and show you specific
ways you can address these five critical subjects,
ultimately winning the trust of searchers and search
engines alike.

-- 60 of 357 --

10
The Big 5, Topic 1
Pricing and Cost: Why We Must Talk
About Money
Have you ever researched online how much something
costs?
Assuredly, if you’re alive, you have.
But when you’re on a company’s website, and there is
nothing about the costs of their product or services, what
is the emotion you experience?
Frustration, right?
I’ve asked this question to hundreds and hundreds of
audiences, and overwhelmingly, “Frustrated” is the
number one response, which is exactly why I’ve dubbed
it the “F-word of the internet.”
But let’s analyze this together for a minute. What gives
you the right to be frustrated when you’re on a business’s
website and you can’t find any cost or price information?
For starters, you’re frustrated because you feel like you’re
wasting your time and not finding the answers you’re
looking for.
Furthermore, you’re thinking to yourself, “I’m the
customer! It’s my money. And it’s my right to know.”
But if we look at this at an even deeper level, you’re upset
because you know that the business knows the answer to
the question. And because you know that they know the
answer, you now feel like they are hiding something
from you.
When you’re researching a company and their products
and services, the moment you feel like anyone is hiding
anything from you, all trust is lost.
Let’s continue, though, to analyze our online behavior in
this moment of frustration at not finding the information

-- 61 of 357 --

you’re looking for.
Do you say to yourself, “Well, I’m just going to dig a little
deeper on this website and see if I can find the answer?”
No, of course you don’t do that. In fact, the idea of
staying on a website that clearly doesn’t have what you’re
looking for is almost insulting to your internet
intelligence.
Or do you say to yourself: “Oh, it’s OK that this company
is not talking about their prices, I’m sure they’re a
“value”-based business. I’ll just call them instead.”
I bet you don’t say that either, do you? In the past you
may have called them, but today, you don’t. Instead of
continuing to dig on their site or calling them directly,
today you keep looking. And you do it elsewhere.
And you continue to look until someone answers your
original question. Whoever is willing to answer your
question first, in most cases, is the one who will get the
first phone call or contact. They’re also the one who will
likely get your business. In other words, they are the one
who has earned your trust.
The search behavior just described is consistent for just
about any company and culture around the world. As
consumers, we expect answers. When we don’t get them,
we become upset and leave. Our loyalty is to the honest
and open teacher focused on our problems.
Do you, right now, on your company site, talk a lot about
the cost of your products or services? If you are like the
thousands of others who’ve heard me ask this question,
you are likely starting to experience a little bit of internal
strife contemplating why you do or do not discuss pricing
on your website.
There might even a civil war going on inside your head.
I have found that fewer than 10 percent of all businesses
in the world (not including ecommerce) address pricing
and costs on their company websites. It doesn’t matter
whether they are B2B or B2C businesses, or whether they
are product- or service-oriented, only a small percentage
ever address the question of pricing and costs.

-- 62 of 357 --

The question is, “Why?”
Why are you (assuming you fall in the 90 percent) not
currently discussing cost and price on your website?
Regardless of company or culture, we have found there
are three reasons businesses justify not discussing this
subject on their websites:
“Every solution is different. Our prices vary.”
“If we discuss pricing on our website, our
competitors will find out what we charge.”
“If we show what we charge, we’ll scare customers
away.”
“Every Solution Is Different”
I’m sure this statement is true, but look at it this way:
When was the last time you were on a website, couldn’t
find pricing information, and said to yourself, “Of course
they can’t talk about pricing, there are simply too many
variables.”
If you’re anything like most consumers, you frankly don’t
care that a company’s prices vary. In fact, with any
common sense, you already know this. You understand
they can’t be exact, but you do certainly feel the least
they could do is give you a sense for what to expect and
some possible ranges as to where you might be.
As a business, you must ask yourself whether it’s possible
to discuss this question of variable costs. Could you
explain the factors that keep the costs down? Could you
explain the elements that push the cost of a project up?
Could you help the readers (or viewers, listeners, or
other type of customer) understand all the factors that
dictate cost within your industry as they’re doing their
research?
Chances are, if you want to give the potential customer a
feel for how pricing works within your industry, as well
as how pricing works within your company, you could
very likely do it.

-- 63 of 357 --

“Our Competitors Will Find Out What
We Charge”
This objection to discussing pricing and cost
transparently is often the most laughable. Most
companies already know exactly—or at least have a very
good feel for—what their competitors charge.
In other words, it’s not a big secret.
Everyone knows what everyone else is charging.
It’s almost like saying you have a “secret sauce” when, in
reality, everyone knows it’s just Thousand Island
dressing.
Plus, if you consider this even further, you have to ask
yourself why you’d ever let the competition dictate your
ability to educate, and ultimately gain the trust of, your
ideal customers.
One of these groups takes your business, and the other is
your business.
“We’ll Scare Customers Away”
Think about this one for a second. It’s as if you’re saying,
“If I’m honest, people won’t want to do business with
me.”
But if we look at how we behave and what we expect as
consumers, the thing that actually scares us away is the
idea of a company not addressing cost and price on their
website.
To illustrate this point, imagine you’re taking a friend to
dinner tonight and you all have decided to try a
restaurant you’ve never been to. Before going, if you’re
like most people, you’re going to research two main
things before you walk through their front doors—online
reviews (via sites like Yelp) and the restaurant’s website
to look at their menu.
Well, what happens if you go to the menu and you find
that it lists items but not prices? What do you do?

-- 64 of 357 --

If you’re like most people, you’ll decide not to go to that
restaurant—not because you couldn’t afford to go there,
but rather because of the simple fact that they didn’t
want to show their prices, which planted seeds of doubt
in your mind as the consumer. And, as consumers, where
there are seeds of doubt, inaction and the inability to
make a buying decision almost always occur.
Folks, discussing cost and price is not about
affordability, it’s about psychology. It’s about trust. And
believe it or not, every business (yours included) can do
it, as we now explain.

-- 65 of 357 --

11
How One Article About Money
Generated More Than $6 Million in
Sales
For years in my career as a pool guy, whenever a
potential customer would call me, within the first five
minutes of a conversation I would almost always hear the
same question:
“Marcus, I’m not going to hold you to it, but could you
at least give me a feel for how much something like this
is going to cost?”
For a long time, that question bothered me as a business
owner. I wanted to talk about products, benefits, and
features, but the customer wanted to immediately know
about pricing.
In hindsight, the fact that I let this bother me so much
was foolish. If roles had been reversed, I would have
wanted to know the same thing.
In other words, as consumers and buyers, we at least like
to have a sense of how much things cost before we spend
hours upon hours dedicated to learning about that
product, service, company, and so on.
Once I stopped thinking like a business owner and
started thinking like the consumer (They Ask, You
Answer), I realized one of the most important pieces of
content I could produce would be the one that addressed
the question, “How much does a fiberglass pool cost?”
So, after years of not wanting to address this subject
until I was face-to-face with a prospect, I shifted and
wrote the article shown in Figure 11.1 on my company
website.

-- 66 of 357 --

Figure 11.1 Fiberglass Pool Cost Article, “A Guide to
Fiberglass Pool Costs” by River Pools.
In it, I explain how buying a fiberglass pool was much
like buying a car—there were many options, accessories,
and so on. I listed each one, offering to the consumer a
true sense of the potential scope of a project.
Next, I explained different types of packages we offered
as a company: how some buyers wanted a pool in the
ground without any patio, landscaping, or other features,
and how others were just the opposite—wanting a true
“turn-key” installation, complete with patio, fencing,
landscaping, and so on.
With each of these, we gave large ranges as to what the
buyer might expect to spend, but ultimately, after 1,000+
words of explanation, we said the answer to the question
of “How much does it cost?” was “It depends.”
What happened next was very, very interesting.
You see, when I published this article on our website in
2009, take a guess as to how many other swimming pool
builders had addressed this question on their company
websites?

-- 67 of 357 --

If you answered zero, you are correct. No one did it. Out
of the thousands of pool builders around the globe, every
single one of them was the ostrich with its head in the
sand.
And, of course, the reasons why they didn’t address it
were the same reasons we discussed earlier:
Each project is different and therefore costs vary.
They didn’t want their competitors to see their
pricing.
They were afraid they’d scare prospects away if they
honestly discussed pricing.
But for us at River Pools, the fact that no one had
addressed this question meant a blue ocean of
opportunity for the business. The marketplace was dying
for someone to be open and honest enough to address
this question, and so that’s exactly what we did.
We saw immediate action on two fronts.
Within days of posting the article on our website, we
noticed an increase in qualified, productive
conversations with leads who contacted us. Many people
commented on how impressed they were to “finally” find
a company that was willing to discuss the subject of cost
and price on their website.
But with search engines like Google, things became even
more interesting. Within 48 hours from the time I posted
the new page on our site, the article became the first
article to pop up any time someone went online and
searched anything to do with how much a fiberglass pool
cost.
In fact, here is a list of keyword phrases for which this
article ranked first in Google search engine results, all
within days of publishing the post:
How much does a fiberglass pool cost?
How much does it cost to install a pool?
Cost of in-ground swimming pool

-- 68 of 357 --

Fiberglass pool cost
Fiberglass pool pricing
And on and on
Now, you might say, “Well, that’s fine, but website traffic
doesn’t necessarily equate to money. It takes more than
traffic to get a customer.”
And if you were thinking this, you’re exactly right. What
we’re discussing here isn’t about getting more traffic to
your website. Fact is, web traffic doesn’t pay your bills,
sales do.
Luckily, the digital sales and marketing tools we used on
our site allowed us to track how people were finding our
company and what they were searching for when they
found us.
Over the course of time, we saw how this one article
would send our company more than one million new
visitors, thousands of whom would eventually become
leads and hundreds more who would “request a quote”—
all because they originally had searched a phrase that
had to do with the cost of a fiberglass swimming pool.
But here is the key question: If that article had never
been written, would any of those sales appointments
have occurred?
The answer, of course, is no.
The prospective buyer (very likely) never would have
found us and shown up to our site in the first place—all
because we hadn’t been willing to address the subject.
But in our case, we were willing to address the question.
And because of this, search engines like Google showed
that article (and our website) to thousands and
thousands of potential buyers. And because of that,
many of these potential buyers were able to say to
themselves:
“OK, now I have a much better sense of what would
drive the cost of a fiberglass swimming pool up or
down. I now know what to expect.”

-- 69 of 357 --

With this education came a feeling of trust, and many
visitors eventually filled out a form to get a quote for a
swimming pool. Because we’re able to track the people
who filled out a form (from the cost article) and know
which ones bought a swimming pool, we know the value
of each one of these customers—a value that can be
directly tied to that one article that was written about the
cost of a fiberglass pool.
Here is the culminating point: We know that since the
time this article was written on our site in 2009, it has
made our company more than $6 million in additional
sales—revenue we would not have had we been an
ostrich with our heads in the sand.
Think about that: $6 million in sales simply because we
were willing to explain to prospective customers that the
cost of a fiberglass swimming pool depends on several
factors. Without exaggeration, this single article saved
my business. It saved my home. It saved the homes of my
two business partners. It also saved the jobs of all our
employees.
But the funny thing is, we never specifically stated how
much a fiberglass pool costs. We simply answered the
question the best we could. We were honest. We openly
discussed the industry as a whole. And in the process of
doing that, my entire business and, ultimately, my life
were altered dramatically.
Fellow reader, this is the power of honesty, transparency,
and seeing yourself as a teacher. But sadly, most
businesses, especially in the B2B space, still don’t
recognize this massive need to openly discuss the issue of
pricing, budgets, money, and related topics on one’s
website.
As mentioned earlier, I now have a digital sales and
marketing agency, IMPACT, that helps companies all
over the world generate more trust, traffic, leads, and
sales. More than 50 percent of these clients are B2B. And
with more than 80 percent of all of these clients, the
number one traffic, lead, and sales-generating content
has to do with money, costs, and even salaries. (If you’re

-- 70 of 357 --

looking to recruit great people, answer their questions
about salary.)
Remember, it doesn’t necessarily matter what you
specifically say in terms of the numbers. What matters is
that you’re willing to teach your prospective customers
what would drive the cost up or down and help them get
a feel for the marketplace.
Over the years, I’ve had dozens upon dozens of
companies approach me and discuss this matter of
pricing, only to tell me how they simply can’t discuss
numbers on their website because their competition
charges so much less than they do.
My response is always the same:
“Why is their product or service cheaper?”
Almost always, the response has to do with overseas
manufacturers, low quality, customer experience, and so
on.
Once again, my retort is always the same:
“Have you bothered to explain these factors well on
your company website?”
In almost every industry, consumers make poor buying
decisions and purchase the “cheapest” products and
services, not because they are solely price motivated, but
rather because they don’t know any better. They haven’t
been educated. No one has bothered to truly explain the
good, the bad, and the ugly of the industry. And that,
once again, is the fault of the business, not the consumer.
Along these same lines, at IMPACT, any time a client of
ours states specific pricing on their site, they inevitably
find such a strategy generates better, more qualified
opportunities.
With specific pricing on their site, they spend less time
dealing with prospects who never would have been a
good fit in the first place and instead focus their energies
on educated, ideal-fit prospects who aren’t just looking
for the cheapest thing, but rather the best value.

-- 71 of 357 --

My point to you and your business is this: When it
comes to money, you cannot be the ostrich with
your head in the sand.
You must be willing to address the most important
questions—regardless of whether you’re service, product,
or value driven, and so on. Remember, it doesn’t matter
what you and I think—what matters is what consumers
think, how they behave, and what they expect.
Are you willing to meet their expectations?
Or, would you prefer that the competition be the one
who answers the question for them? They’re going to get
their answers from someone, so wouldn’t you prefer they
get their answers from you?
Putting It into Action
Focus on Cost, Price, Salary, Etc.
Based on what you have now read, would it possible for
you to address the question of pricing and costs (or even
salary) on your website?
Remember, I’m not suggesting you put a “price list” on
your site. Rather, be willing to specifically address the
main pricing questions you get. To do this effectively,
complete the following activity:
List all the major products and services you sell.
Once this list is complete, identify the items and
services that generate the most revenue and/or have
the most opportunity for you as a company.
Now, for each one of these, produce at least one
article and video explaining the factors that dictate
costs, what the buyer can expect to see in the
industry, and where you fall as a company.
Place this content on your company website. In fact,
we strongly recommend to clients that they have a
“pricing” tab on the home pages of their websites,

-- 72 of 357 --

and that the content funnel visitors to the articles
and videos that address these core pricing questions.
Immediately start using this content throughout
your sales process (as we discuss later in the book).

-- 73 of 357 --

12
Case Study 1
High-End B2B Technology Company
Generates More Than $8 Million in
Additional Revenue
Note: As mentioned previously, throughout this book we
integrate powerful stories of businesses that have
embraced They Ask, You Answer in their own ways to
achieve extraordinary results. As is the case with Segue
Technologies, you will hear about them embracing
strategies that are covered later in the book. When this
occurs, you can simply consider it a preview of what is to
come in later chapters, as it all will become very clear by
the end.
In today’s world, few industries are as competitive as
technology. In order to stand out in these types of
businesses, companies often have to embrace new and
creative ways of thinking and doing things, or watch as
their businesses slowly fade into oblivion only to be
replaced by the next guy who had the foresight to
embrace the vision of the future.
Segue Technologies is a perfect example of a company
that saw the power of great teaching and transparency as
a new and more efficient way of doing business and
quickly set out to be the first, and best, to do it in their
industry.
About Segue Technologies
Segue Technologies specializes in application
development and support services for federal,
commercial, and nonprofit companies looking to have
their IT challenges solved.
Segue provides custom web applications, solves data
management problems, and supports the evolution of

-- 74 of 357 --

the mobile workforce. Segue’s goal is to help clients
customize their IT services in a way that saves them
money, improves their performance, and allows them to
work more efficiently. Rather than pushing a one-size-
fits-all solution for their clients, Segue customizes
solutions based on the specific needs of each of their
clients.
Ron Novak, Segue Technologies’ executive vice
president, discusses the changes Segue has made over
the years to their marketing efforts and business model
(going from just business-to-government [B2G] to
business-to-business [B2B]) as they continue to stay at
the forefront of the IT solutions industry.
Initially, we started off doing Windows-based desktop
development, mostly for procurement software and
budgeting software for the Air Force. As technology
changed rapidly, we moved to doing web application
development and branched off into doing commercial
as well, and then expanded from working with just the
Air Force to working with the Marine Corps, Navy,
and Army.
For a couple of years, Segue was comfortable growing
their business strictly through the Armed Services
sectors. However, during a time of government budget
cuts, Segue realized (as many did in the B2G space) that
in order to continue growing and evolving, they would
have to branch out into the commercial space as well.
Says Novak:
It was almost like an experiment just to see if we could
even do commercial work. Fortunately, we ended up
landing some pretty large clients. We started working
with Sprint, Five Guys, and the United Negro College
Fund. We had some good diversification at that point,
which allowed us to kind of weather the storm during
the government sequestration.
Novak quickly realized that doing business in the
commercial space was quite different from doing
business in the government space. Rather than through
advertising, most of the business they had solicited from

-- 75 of 357 --

the federal government came via word of mouth and
attending networking events.
Before 2008, it was almost exclusively word-of-
mouth, organic growth, and networking events. Doing
business in the government space is a lot different
than in the commercial world, so a lot of our
marketing was just in-person networking and
relationship building.
Like many companies, Segue Technologies had a
business website, but they hadn’t really been utilizing it.
Novak realized the value a solid, evolving website and
blog could add to the business if they were going to enter
the commercial space with any success.
We were slightly ahead of the curve of the defense
contractors in that we actually saw the value in having
a good website and having good content. But we really
didn’t know what good content meant for a long time.
Even though we wrote some blogs back then, they
were very inconsistent. We were lucky to do one or
two a month, and we didn’t really have a strategy
behind the content we created, as it certainly wasn’t
close to aligning with They Ask, You Answer.
Although Segue had been taking a little time to try and
bolster their website traffic through blogging, they
weren’t seeing the results they had hoped for.
We were still growing—we were growing every year,
but a lot of that was because of organic growth in our
normal customer base. But very rarely did we get new
customers coming to our website. We would get
interest and maybe some decent leads every once in a
while, but we didn’t close many leads from the web. It
was kind of one of those things that you really had to
have a good website on the commercial side more
than the government side.

-- 76 of 357 --

A lot of organizations in the [Department of Defense]
space don’t really think that your website is that
important, and they still don’t. It’s still kind of an
antiquated world in many ways, so I viewed it as a
huge opportunity to differentiate ourselves from other
competitors in our space and start to establish
ourselves as thought leaders in our industry.
Novak was attending an event in the summer of 2012
when he heard me discuss the power of content,
transparency, and They Ask, You Answer.
It was during Marcus’s presentation that I had kind of
a “light-bulb” moment. The first thing I thought was,
“Man, I feel stupid. I should have been doing this
years ago,” as we’d had a website up for over ten
years, and I couldn’t believe we hadn’t been doing
this. It’s crazy because it’s so simple. The connection
of answering people’s questions is such a simple
concept. But executing it was something that we had
just never done before.
So, in January 2013, I met with much of Novak’s
company and introduced to the team the philosophy of
They Ask, You Answer and the potential impact it could
have on the company as a whole as well as the
individuals, assuming everyone embraced this “teacher’s
mentality.” Novak has since attributed that workshop as
the pivotal moment when Segue Technologies’ online
efforts, and entire business model, began to shift.
After the workshop, Novak showed just how serious he
was about this new philosophy by making it mandatory
that every employee in the company contribute to the
company’s content strategy.
Each employee was tasked with writing at least one blog
per quarter for a total of four blog posts per year.
We wanted to get everyone involved. Whether they
were going to be great writers, or whether they were
going to be people who were going to do it long term, I
just wanted to at least try it.

-- 77 of 357 --

Obviously, we had some people that took to it and
enjoyed it. We had some people who didn’t enjoy it as
much, and others who may have not loved it, but saw
the value of it, especially once their articles started
ranking and we started getting leads from their
articles.
The Snowball Begins
Within a short time, Segue’s newly focused content
marketing efforts began to pay off in ways they had
always hoped they would. The early success they found
inspired the team at Segue to continue to strengthen and
develop their newfound obsession with educating their
customers.
We had some pretty quick growth. Before we started
this process we had [fewer] than 1,000 visitors a
month to our website, and within three months of the
workshop we had over 30,000.
We had several articles rank at number one on Google
within a couple of months, so that really got people
energized. For me it was just kind of a no-brainer
from the beginning, but actually seeing it happen—
watching the leads increase, and not just the number
of leads, but the quality of leads as we improved our
funnel and optimized our lead pages—was amazing.
It’s been really fun to see it all evolve.
Segue Technologies’ Astounding
Growth
As Segue Technologies continued their content
marketing efforts, they began to adjust their focus from
simply getting articles out online to curating specific
messages that they wanted to get across to their most
ideal potential customers.

-- 78 of 357 --

We got to the point where we had to tweak our contact
pages, because we were getting so many leads, and not
all of them were the right fit for us. Just the sheer
quantity of traffic and leads was blown through the
roof. All of that traffic allowed us to be a little more
choosy, too.
For instance, one of the things we did was to change
our contact form. Where it asks for them to give the
size of their budget for their projects, we actually
raised all of our values on them so that we could hone
in a little closer to our ideal customers. We added
additional questions as well. What it did was reduce
the number of leads, but the quality of the leads kept
getting better and better.
Improving the System to Produce
Content
After they had amassed a large number of articles, Segue
changed the method of how content was produced. They
took things a step further and began to refine some of
their older posts and ebooks with higher quality in mind.
When we first started producing content, we had an
intern we had brought on specifically to help curate,
organize, edit, and make sure the publishing schedule
was staying on track. And she was amazing and has
continued to do really great things for us, so we
promoted her to content marketing manager. She’s
the one in charge for really keeping it going. It’s
important to have a person in that type of role.
We became a little bit looser on the number of articles
everybody had to write, because we had developed
quite a bit of content over the past few years, so we
started focusing on refining the message.

-- 79 of 357 --

We may not be producing as many blog articles per
month as we used to, but we’re much more thoughtful
about what we’re writing about, and we’re doing a
really good job of going back to older content and
updating them, and updating the subsequent ebooks
as we have a whole ebook strategy around our
different service areas.
And because we started doing that, we’ve seen huge
gains not only in traffic, but in the quality of leads,
especially over the last six months.
Many businesses may think that targeting only specific
types of leads could hurt their business by reducing
traffic and overall lead generation, but Segue views their
new efforts as exponentially valuable.
What’s different about us is that we’re not a business
that brings in a ton of new clients each year, especially
in the commercial space. If we bring on four or six
new clients each year, that’s actually a lot, because the
size of our business deals are pretty large. A typical
deal for us is anywhere from a quarter million to a
million dollars.
When companies truly understand the power of great
content and the philosophy of They Ask, You Answer,
they don’t just stop at using their content to attract
visitors to their site, they continually repurpose their
content at every step of the sales funnel.
Whether it’s through emails, phone calls, webinars, or
training, companies like Segue recognize the value their
content has in guiding potential clients through the
buyer’s journey.
One surprising area [where] we’ve been able to utilize
content is during “proposal season,” which occurs
every July and August. During this season, the
government—and the DOD, in particular—have a lot
of money they have to obligate and execute before the
end of the government fiscal year, which is September
30.

-- 80 of 357 --

