

-- 1 of 1028 --

Contents
Foreword
What’s new
Key to Stylebook entries
A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U | V | W | XYZ
Punctuation
Business
Covering Corporate Earnings Reports
International Bureaus
Bankruptcy
Mergers and Acquisitions
Data journalism
Polls and surveys
Health and science
AP social media guidelines
The Basics
Using Lists to Stay Organized And Protect Your Privacy
Search for People — and Their Photos and Videos
User-Generated Content
Digital Security for Journalists
Social Media Guidelines for AP Employees
Religion

-- 2 of 1028 --

Religion Guidelines
Sports
Sports Identification Codes
Major College Basketball Conferences
Major College Football Conferences
Football Championship Subdivision
Food
Fashion
Briefing on Media Law
Introduction
Legal Principles of Newsgathering
Legal Principles of Publication
The Associated Press statement of news values and principles
Corrections
Data
Fabrications
Graphics and Interactives
Images
Music
Obscenities, Profanities, Vulgarities, Hate and Propaganda
Privacy of Victims
Quotations
Responses
Social Networks
Use of Others’ Material
Broadcast Guidelines
Corrections, correctives, clarifications
Editing marks
Bibliography

-- 3 of 1028 --

About the AP
Index
Choose the right tool to keep you in style

-- 4 of 1028 --

Foreword
The first Associated Press Stylebook was 60 pages, bound together with staples, a
basic guide for news writing. It has evolved into a comprehensive reference manual
that fills more than 600 pages and is published across an array of digital platforms,
encompassing the collective wisdom of the AP staff and Stylebook readers. Despite
drastic changes in the media landscape, one constant remains: The AP Stylebook is a
definitive resource for writers.
Today's Stylebook still outlines basic rules on grammar, punctuation, usage and
journalistic style, but it also reflects changes in common language, offers guidance
on media law, explains AP's news values and principles, and helps to navigate the
ever-changing world of social media.
A team of top AP editors meets throughout the year to make updates and
improvements, many of which appear immediately in Stylebook Online.
Contributions come from the AP staff, AP's member news organizations and
subscribers, journalism teachers and students, specialists in a host of fields, and
everyday readers. Indeed, some of the changes that are talked about most have come
at the suggestion of @APStylebook's Twitter followers.
Every update is deeply rooted in respect for language and commitment to the
original goal: to be clear, fair and concise around the globe, no matter what the news
is or where it happens.
Whether you access it in print or online, The Associated Press Stylebook remains
an essential tool in newsrooms, classrooms and boardrooms alike, the perfect
resource for journalists and anyone who cares about good writing.
Gary Pruitt
President and Chief Executive Officer

-- 5 of 1028 --

What’s new
In this edition of the AP Stylebook
This edition of the Stylebook contains more than 200 new and modified entries.
A new health and science chapter provides guidelines and flags pitfalls.
Individual terms, including a new entry on “Medicare for All,” remain in the
book’s main section.
We added a race-related coverage entry, which begins: “Reporting and writing
about issues involving race calls for thoughtful consideration, precise language,
and an openness to discussions with others of diverse backgrounds about how to
frame coverage or what language is most appropriate, accurate and fair.” The entry
discusses the terms racist and racially charged, as well as blacks, Native
Americans and more.
We removed the hyphen from African American and other dual heritage terms.
We now use the % symbol in all but casual uses: 53% of Americans, but he
has a zero percent chance. We also now use accent marks and other diacritical
marks in the names of people who request them.
New entries discuss cryptocurrency; deepfakes; constitutional amendments
and clauses; sports betting terms; vaping terms; and use of the words suspect,
casualties, and human trafficking/human smuggling. We expanded our suicide
entry and revised marijuana, medical marijuana; The Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints; and “right to work.”
An enhanced hyphen section of the Punctuation chapter stresses: “If the sheer
number of hyphens in a phrase, or confusion about how to use them, can daunt
either the writer or the reader, try rephrasing. It’s a guide about how to use
hyphens wisely, not it’s a how-to-use-hyphens-wisely guide.” We no longer
hyphenate most compound modifiers after versions of the verb to be. And: no
hyphen in first grader, first quarter score, etc.
We removed the hyphen in double-e combinations (reelection, preempt),
reflecting usage. We also removed the hyphen from passerby and bestseller. We
revised our guidance to say data typically takes singular verbs and pronouns in
writing for general audiences. Also: Do not use the term sic to indicate incorrect
spelling or usage.
We now say that splitting the infinitive or compound forms of a verb is often
necessary to convey meaning and make a sentence easy to read. We added more
guidance to the headlines entry. The composition titles entry is rewritten for
clarity, and we removed quotation marks from game titles.

-- 6 of 1028 --

We say STEM is acceptable on first reference. Grassroots is now one word, as
is babysit and budtender. Macao is now our style, instead of Macau. We now use
Ecuadorian instead of Ecuadorean. Macedonia is now North Macedonia.
We note that it’s frosting or icing, depending on where you live. And:
Santa Claus, Santa Nice in any reference. Naughty: Using Claus on second
reference. Mrs. Claus is acceptable for Santa’s wife.

-- 7 of 1028 --

Key to Stylebook entries
This updated and revised version of The Associated Press Stylebook has been
organized like a dictionary. Need the acronym for a government agency? Look under
the agency’s name. Should you capitalize a word? Check the word itself or the
capitalization entry. What’s the format for baseball boxes? See baseball.
A key to entries is on the next screen.

-- 8 of 1028 --



-- 9 of 1028 --

Tap image to enlarge

-- 10 of 1028 --

a
a- The rules of prefixes apply, but in general, no hyphen. Some examples:
achromatic
atonal
AAA Formerly the American Automobile Association.
Headquarters is in Heathrow, Florida.
a, an Use the article a before consonant sounds: a historic event, a one-year term
(sounds as if it begins with a w), a united stand (sounds like you).
Use the article an before vowel sounds: an energy crisis, an honorable man
(the h is silent), an homage (the h is silent), an NBA record (sounds like it begins
with the letter e), an 1890s celebration.
AARP Use only the initials for the organization formerly known as the American
Association of Retired Persons.
abaya Robe-like outer garment worn by Muslim women.
abbreviations and acronyms A few universally recognized abbreviations are
required in some circumstances. Some others are acceptable depending on the
context. But in general, avoid alphabet soup. Do not use abbreviations or
acronyms that the reader would not quickly recognize.
Abbreviations and most acronyms should be avoided in headlines.
Guidance on how to use a particular abbreviation or acronym is provided in
entries alphabetized according to the sequence of letters in the word or phrase.
An acronym is a word formed from the first letter or letters of a series of
words: laser (light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation). An
abbreviation is not an acronym.
Some general principles:
BEFORE A NAME: Abbreviate titles when used before a full name: Dr., Gov., Lt.
Gov., Mr., Mrs., Rep., the Rev., Sen. and certain military designations listed in the
military titles entry.

-- 11 of 1028 --

For guidelines on how to use titles, see courtesy titles; legislative titles; military titles;
religious titles; and the entries for the most commonly used titles.
AFTER A NAME: Abbreviate junior or senior after an individual’s name.
Abbreviate company, corporation, incorporated and limited when used after the
name of a corporate entity. See entries under these words and company names.
In some cases, an academic degree may be abbreviated after an individual’s
name. See academic degrees.
WITH DATES OR NUMERALS: Use the abbreviations A.D., B.C., a.m., p.m., No.,
and abbreviate certain months (Jan., Feb., Aug., Sept., Oct., Nov., Dec.) when
used with the day of the month.
Right: In 450 B.C.; at 9:30 a.m.; in room No. 6; on Sept. 16.
Wrong: Early this a.m. he asked for the No. of your room. The abbreviations
are correct only with figures.
Right: Early this morning he asked for the number of your room.
See months and individual entries for these other terms:
IN NUMBERED ADDRESSES: Abbreviate avenue, boulevard and street in
numbered addresses: He lives on Pennsylvania Avenue. He lives at 1600
Pennsylvania Ave.
See addresses.
STATES: The names of certain states and the United States are abbreviated with
periods in some circumstances.
See state names; datelines; and individual entries.
AVOID AWKWARD CONSTRUCTIONS: Do not follow an organization’s full name
with an abbreviation or acronym in parentheses or set off by dashes. If an
abbreviation or acronym would not be clear on second reference without this
arrangement, do not use it.
Names not commonly before the public should not be reduced to acronyms
solely to save a few words.
SPECIAL CASES: Many abbreviations are desirable in tabulations and certain
types of technical writing. See individual entries.
CAPS, PERIODS: Use capital letters and periods according to the listings in this
book. For words not in this book, use the first-listed abbreviation in Webster’s
New World College Dictionary. Generally, omit periods in acronyms unless the
result would spell an unrelated word. But use periods in most two-letter
abbreviations: U.S., U.N., U.K., B.A., B.C. (AP, a trademark, is an exception.
Also, no periods in GI, ID and EU, among others.) In headlines, do not use
periods in abbreviations, unless required for clarity.
Use all caps, but no periods, in longer abbreviations when the individual letters
are pronounced: ABC, CIA, FBI.

-- 12 of 1028 --

Use only an initial cap and then lowercase for abbreviations and acronyms of
more than five letters, unless listed otherwise in this Stylebook or Webster’s New
World College Dictionary.
ABC Acceptable in all references for American Broadcasting Cos. (the plural is
part of the corporate name). Owned by The Walt Disney Co.
ABCs
able-bodied
ABM, ABMs Acceptable in all references for anti-ballistic missile(s), but the
term should be defined in the story. (The hyphen is an exception to Webster’s New
World College Dictionary.)
Avoid the redundant phrase ABM missiles.
Aborigine See race-related coverage.
abortion Use the modifiers anti-abortion or abortion-rights; don’t use pro-life,
pro-choice or pro-abortion unless they are in quotes or proper names. Avoid
abortionist, which connotes a person who performs clandestine abortions.
aboveboard
absent-minded
Abu Sayyaf Muslim separatist group based in the southern islands of the
Philippines. The name is Arabic for father of the bearer of the sword.
academic degrees If mention of degrees is necessary to establish someone’s
credentials, the preferred form is to avoid an abbreviation and use instead a phrase
such as: John Jones, who has a doctorate in psychology.
Use an apostrophe in bachelor’s degree, a master’s, etc., but there is no
possessive in Bachelor of Arts or Master of Science.
Also: an associate degree (no possessive).
Use such abbreviations as B.A., M.A., LL.D. and Ph.D. only when the need to
identify many individuals by degree on first reference would make the preferred

-- 13 of 1028 --

form cumbersome. Use these abbreviations only after a full name — never after
just a last name.
When used after a name, an academic abbreviation is set off by commas: John
Snow, Ph.D., spoke.
Do not precede a name with a courtesy title for an academic degree and follow
it with the abbreviation for the degree in the same reference.
See doctor; Master of Arts, Master of Science, Master of Business Administration.
academic departments Use lowercase except for words that are proper nouns
or adjectives: the department of history, the history department, the department
of English, the English department, or when department is part of the official and
formal name: University of Connecticut Department of Economics.
academic titles Capitalize and spell out formal titles such as chancellor,
chairman, etc., when they precede a name. Lowercase elsewhere.
Lowercase modifiers such as department in department Chairman Jerome
Wiesner.
See doctor; titles.
academy See military academies.
Academy Awards Presented annually by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts
and Sciences. Also known as the Oscars. (Both Academy Awards and Oscars are
trademarks.)
Lowercase the academy and the awards whenever they stand alone.
accent marks Use accent marks or other diacritical marks with names of people
who request them or are widely known to use them, or if quoting directly in a
language that uses them: An immigration officer spotted him and asked an
innocuous question: “Cómo estás?” How are you? Otherwise, do not use these
marks in English-language stories. Note: Many AP customers’ computer systems
ingest via the ANPA standard and will not receive diacritical marks published by
the AP.
accept, except Accept means to receive.
Except means to exclude.
accident, crash Generally acceptable for automobile and other collisions and
wrecks. However, when negligence is claimed or proven, avoid accident, which

-- 14 of 1028 --

can be read by some as a term exonerating the person responsible. In such cases,
use crash, collision or other terms.
accommodate
accounts payable Current liabilities or debts of a business which must be paid
within one year.
accounts receivable Amounts due to a company for merchandise or services
sold on credit. These are short-term assets.
accused, alleged, suspected A person is accused of, not with, a crime.
To avoid any suggestion that an individual is being judged before a trial, do not
use a phrase such as accused slayer John Jones or the accused slayer; alleged
killer Ralph Hornsby or the alleged killer; suspected shooter Carmine Jablonski
or the suspected shooter. Instead: John Jones, accused of the slaying or Ralph
Hornsby, charged with killing the man.
Also see separate allege and suspect entries. For guidance on related terms, see
arrest and indict.
Ace A trademark for a brand of elastic bandage. Elastic bandage is preferred in all
references.
Achilles tendon No apostrophe for the tendon connecting the back of the heel
to the calf muscles. But it’s Achilles’ heel, with an apostrophe, for a vulnerable
spot.
acknowledgment
acquisition The process of buying or acquiring some asset. The term can refer to
the purchase of a block of stock or, more often, to the acquisition of an entire
company.
acre Equal to 43,560 square feet or 4,840 square yards. The metric equivalent is
0.4 (two-fifths) of a hectare or 4,047 square meters.
One square mile is 640 acres.
To convert to hectares, multiply by 0.4 (5 acres x 0.4 equals 2 hectares).
Use square miles to describe the size of wildfires.

-- 15 of 1028 --

See wildfires; hectare.
acronyms See abbreviations and acronyms.
ACT Use only the initials in referring to the previously designated American
College Testing.
act, amendment, bill, law, measure, ordinance, resolution, rule,
statute The word act is sometimes included in a formal name for pending or
implemented legislation. Capitalize when part of the name: the Taft-Hartley Act.
An amendment is a change or proposed change to a bill or law. Amendments
are usually passed or enacted.
A bill is a draft proposal presented to a lawmaking body, such as a legislature,
that requires debate, voting and final approval before it can become a law. Bills
usually pass or fail, or are approved or signed. Do not capitalize when part of
references to specific legislation: the Kennedy bill. Use conditional language for
bills throughout the legislative process: The bill would prohibit such activity; the
bill seeks to legalize the drug.
A law is a bill that has been approved by a lawmaking body, usually at the state
or federal level, and that sometimes requires the signature of an executive such as
a governor or president. Laws are usually enacted and don’t necessarily take effect
at the time they are enacted.
An ordinance is the municipal equivalent of a law. Ordinances are enacted.
Before they become ordinances, they should usually be called proposals or
proposed ordinances. Though terminology varies from place to place, it’s usually
best to avoid referring to such proposals as bills, to avoid confusion with higher
levels of government.
A resolution is a sentiment or recommendation of a lawmaking body, often
described as binding or nonbinding depending on whether it has the force of law.
Resolutions are adopted or fail.
A rule is an authoritative regulation that can be enacted, created or ordered at
various levels of government.
A statute is a written and enacted law or ordinance.
Any of the above terms can also be described generically as measures,
provided no confusion would result.
acting Always lowercase, but capitalize any formal title that may follow before a
name: acting Mayor Peter Barry.
See titles.

-- 16 of 1028 --

act numbers Use Arabic figures and capitalize act: Act 1; Act 2, Scene 2. But:
the first act, the second act. See numerals.
actor (man) actress (woman) It is acceptable to use actor for a woman if she
prefers it.
A.D. Acceptable in all references for anno Domini: in the year of the Lord.
Because the full phrase would read in the year of the Lord 96, the abbreviation
A.D. goes before the figure for the year: A.D. 96.
Do not write: The fourth century A.D. The fourth century is sufficient. If A.D.
is not specified with a year, the year is presumed to be A.D.
See B.C.
addiction Addiction is a treatable disease that affects a person’s brain and
behavior. Drug and alcohol use can cause changes in the brain that lead to
compulsive use, despite damage to health and relationships. Genetics, mental
illness and other factors make certain people susceptible to addiction.
Addiction is the preferred term. The term substance use disorder is preferred
by some health professionals and is acceptable in some uses, such as in quotations
or scientific contexts. Alcoholism is acceptable for addiction to alcohol.
Avoid words like abuse or problem in favor of the word use with an
appropriate modifier such as risky, unhealthy, excessive or heavy. Misuse is also
acceptable. Don’t assume all people who engage in risky use of drugs or alcohol
have an addiction.
Avoid words like alcoholic, addict, user, abuser, junkie, drunk or crackhead
unless they are in quotations or names of organizations, such as Alcoholics
Anonymous. Many researchers and organizations, including the Office of National
Drug Control Policy and the International Society of Addiction Journal Editors,
agree that stigmatizing or punitive-sounding language can be inaccurate by
emphasizing the person, not the disease; can be a barrier to seeking treatment; and
can prejudice even doctors. Instead, choose phrasing like he was addicted, people
with heroin addiction or he used drugs.
Examples: Keene had trouble keeping his job because of alcoholism, not
Keene had trouble keeping his job because he was an alcoholic. Yang joined
other people with heroin addictions at the conference, not Yang joined other
heroin addicts at the conference.
Avoid describing sobriety as clean unless in quotations, since it implies a
previous state of dirtiness instead of disease.

-- 17 of 1028 --

Not all compulsive behaviors, including shopping, eating and sex, are
considered addictions. Gambling is the only one classified as an addiction in the
American Psychiatric Association’s diagnostic manual. The World Health
Organization says excessive video gaming can be an addiction.
Do not use the terms addiction and dependence interchangeably. Addiction
usually refers to a disease or disorder; dependence may not involve one, such as
some babies born to mothers who use drugs or cancer patients who take prescribed
painkillers.
The term misuse can be helpful in cases of legally prescribed medications, such
as if a person with a painkiller prescription purposely takes too many to get high,
or excessively uses medical marijuana. Such actions do not necessarily entail an
addiction but can progress into one.
See alcoholic; drugs; naloxone; opiate, opioid.
addresses Use the abbreviations Ave., Blvd. and St. only with a numbered
address: 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. Spell them out and capitalize when part of a
formal street name without a number: Pennsylvania Avenue. Lowercase and spell
out when used alone or with more than one street name: Massachusetts and
Pennsylvania avenues.
All similar words (alley, drive, road, terrace, etc.) always are spelled out.
Capitalize them when part of a formal name without a number; lowercase when
used alone or with two or more names.
Always use figures for an address number: 9 Morningside Circle.
Spell out and capitalize First through Ninth when used as street names; use
figures for 10th and above: 7 Fifth Ave., 100 21st St.
Abbreviate compass points used to indicate directional ends of a street or
quadrants of a city in a numbered address: 222 E. 42nd St., 562 W. 43rd St., 600 K
St. NW. Do not abbreviate if the number is omitted: East 42nd Street, West 43rd
Street, K Street Northwest. No periods in quadrant abbreviations — NW, SE —
unless customary locally.
See highway designations.
Use periods in the abbreviation P.O. for P.O. Box numbers.
See numerals.
adjectives The abbreviation adj. is used in this book to identify the spelling of
the adjectival forms of words that frequently are misspelled.
The comma entry provides guidance on punctuating a series of adjectives.
The hyphen entry provides guidance on handling compound modifiers used
before a noun.

-- 18 of 1028 --

adjustable-rate mortgage A mortgage that has a fixed interest rate for a short
period of time and then resets, usually yearly, over the life of the loan, based on an
index tied to changes in market interest rates. ARM should be used only in direct
quotes.
ad-lib
administration Lowercase: the administration, the president’s administration,
the governor’s administration, the Trump administration.
See government, junta, regime, administration for distinctions that apply in using these
terms.
administrative law judge This is the federal title for the position formerly
known as hearing examiner. Capitalize it when used as a formal title before a
name.
To avoid the long title, seek a construction that sets the title off by commas:
The administrative law judge, John Williams, disagreed.
administrator Never abbreviate. Capitalize when used as a formal title before a
name.
See titles.
admiral See military titles.
admissible
admit, admitted These words may in some contexts give the erroneous
connotation of wrongdoing.
People who say they are recovering from alcoholism, for example, are not
admitting it. Said is usually sufficient.
ad nauseam
adopt, approve, enact, pass See act, amendment, bill, law, measure, ordinance,
resolution, rule, statute entry.
adoption The adoptive status of children or their parents should be mentioned
only when its relevance is made clear in the story. If relevant, use the term

-- 19 of 1028 --

biological parents to refer to the birth mother and father. Preferred phrasing: A
child is placed for adoption, rather than given up for adoption.
Adrenalin A trademark for the synthetic or chemically extracted forms of
epinephrine, a substance produced by the adrenal glands.
The nonproprietary terms are epinephrine hydrochloride or adrenaline.
adult A person who has reached 18. See privacy.
Advance Publications Inc. Privately held company whose holdings include
Conde Nast Publications and newspapers in more than 25 U.S. cities. Headquarters
is in New York.
adverbs The abbreviation adv. is used in this book to identify the spelling of
adverbial forms of words frequently misspelled.
See the hyphen entry in the Punctuation chapter for guidelines on when an adverb
should be followed by a hyphen in constructing a compound modifier.
adverse, averse Adverse means unfavorable: He predicted adverse weather.
Averse means reluctant, opposed: She is averse to change.
adviser Not advisor.
advisory
Aer Lingus Headquarters of this airline is in Dublin, Ireland.
Aeroflot Headquarters of this airline is in Moscow.
Aeromexico Headquarters of this airline is in Mexico City.
aesthetic
affect, effect Affect, as a verb, means to influence: The game will affect the
standings.
Affect, as a noun, is best avoided. It occasionally is used in psychology to
describe an emotion, but there is no need for it in everyday language.

-- 20 of 1028 --

Effect, as a verb, means to cause: He will effect many changes in the
company.
Effect, as a noun, means result: The effect was overwhelming. He
miscalculated the effect of his actions. It was a law of little effect.
Affordable Care Act Shorthand for the formal title of the health care overhaul
that former President Barack Obama signed into law in 2010. The term is
acceptable on first reference, but explain later in the story: former President
Barack Obama’s health care law. On second reference, ACA or “Obamacare”
(the latter in quote marks) are acceptable. Its full name is Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act.
Afghan The term for the people and culture of Afghanistan. Afghani is the
Afghan unit of currency.
AFL-CIO Acceptable in all references for the American Federation of Labor
and Congress of Industrial Organizations. Headquarters is in Washington.
A-frame
African American See race-related coverage.
African Union The African Union, established in 2002 to succeed the
Organization of African Unity, has the following 55 members:
Algeria, Angola, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape
Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Djibouti, Egypt,
Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau,
Guinea, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Niger, Nigeria, Republic
of Congo, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone,
Somalia, South Africa, South Sudan, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Tunisia,
Uganda, Western Sahara, Zambia, Zimbabwe. There are two Congos: the
Republic of Congo and the Democratic Republic of Congo. The latter is the
Congo in AP style.
after- No hyphen after this prefix when it is used to form a noun:
aftereffect
afterthought
Follow after with a hyphen when it is used to form compound modifiers:

-- 21 of 1028 --

after-dinner drink
after-theater snack
after-party
afterward Not afterwards.
Agence France-Presse A global news agency with headquarters in Paris. AFP
acceptable on second reference.
agent Lowercase unless it is a formal title used before a name.
In the FBI, the formal title is special agent. In most cases, make it agent
William Smith or FBI agent William Smith.
See titles.
ages Use when deemed relevant to the situation. If someone is quoted as saying,
“I’m too old to get another job,” the age is relevant. Generally, use ages for
profiles, obituaries, significant career milestones and achievements unusual for the
age. Use ages for people commenting or providing information only if their age is
relevant to their comments (e.g., a teenager’s comment on video games aimed at
that age group). Appropriate background, such as a parent of two young children
or a World War II veteran, may suffice instead of the actual age.
Always use figures. The girl is 15 years old; the law is 8 years old; the 101-
year-old house. When the context does not require years or years old, the figure is
presumed to be years.
Use hyphens for ages expressed as adjectives before a noun or as substitutes for
a noun.
Examples: A 5-year-old boy, but the boy is 5 years old. The boy, 7, has a
sister, 10. The woman, 26, has a daughter 2 months old. The race is for 3-year-
olds. The woman is in her 30s (no apostrophe).
See also boy, girl; infant; youth; numerals; elderly.
See comma in punctuation guidelines.
aggregator A website or feed that amasses content from other sources and
assembles it in a form digestible to its users.
agnostic, atheist An agnostic is a person who believes it is impossible to know
whether there is a God.
An atheist is a person who believes there is no God.

-- 22 of 1028 --

aid, aide Aid is assistance.
An aide is a person who serves as an assistant.
aide-de-camp, aides-de-camp A military officer who serves as assistant and
confidential secretary to a superior.
AIDS Acceptable in all references for acquired immune deficiency syndrome,
sometimes called acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.
AIDS is a disease that weakens the immune system, gradually destroying the
body’s ability to fight infections and certain cancers. It is caused by human
immunodeficiency virus, or HIV. (HIV virus is redundant.)
HIV is spread most often through sexual contact; shared or contaminated
needles or syringes; infected blood or blood products; and from infected women to
their babies at birth or through breastfeeding.
Use the HIV/AIDS construction with care. People can be infected with the
virus and not have AIDS; they do not have AIDS until they develop serious
symptoms. Many remain infected but apparently healthy for years.
See cocktail.
ain’t A dialectical or nonstandard contraction. Use it only in quoted matter or
special contexts.
air bag Two words.
air base Two words. Follow the practice of the U.S. Air Force, which uses air
force base as part of the proper name for its bases in the United States and air base
for its installations abroad. Some bases have become joint bases with other
services.
On second reference: the Air Force base, the air base, or the base.
Do not abbreviate, even in datelines:
LACKLAND AIR FORCE BASE, Texas (AP) —
JOINT BASE ANDREWS, Md.
(AP) —
Airbnb See vacation rental websites.
Air Canada Headquarters of this airline is in Saint-Laurent, Canada.

-- 23 of 1028 --

Air China Headquarters of this airline is in Beijing.
air-condition, air-conditioned (v. and adj.) The nouns are: air conditioner,
air conditioning.
aircraft names Use a hyphen when changing from letters to figures; no hyphen
when adding a letter after figures.
Some examples of aircraft: B-1, C-5A, FH-227, F-15 Eagle, F-16 Falcon,
MiG-29, Tu-154, Il-96, Boeing 737-800, 747, 747B. Airbus A380, A380F (no
hyphen) is an exception.
This hyphenation principle is the one used most frequently by manufacturers
and users. Apply it in all cases for consistency. For other elements of a name, use
the form adopted by the manufacturer or user. If in doubt, consult IHS Jane’s All
the World’s Aircraft.
NO QUOTES: Do not use quotation marks for aircraft with names: Air Force
One, the Spirit of St. Louis.
AVOID PROMOTIONAL NAMES: Boeing 787, not Dreamliner.
PLURALS: 747s. But: 747B’s. (As noted in plurals, the apostrophe is used in
forming the plural of a single letter.)
SEQUENCE: Use Arabic figures to establish the sequence of aircraft, spacecraft
and missiles: Apollo 10. Do not use hyphens.
See numerals.
aircraft terms Use engine, not motor, for the units that propel aircraft: a twin-
engine plane (not twin engined).
Use jet plane or jetliner to describe only those aircraft driven solely by jet
engines. Use turboprop to describe an aircraft on which the jet engine is geared to
a propeller. Turboprops sometimes are called propjets.
See engine, motor.
airfare One word.
air force Capitalize when referring to U.S. forces: the U.S. Air Force, the Air
Force, Air Force regulations. Do not use the abbreviation USAF.
Congress established the Army Air Forces (note the s) in 1941. Prior to that, the
air arm was known as the U.S. Army Air Corps. The U.S. Air Force (no s) was
created as a separate service in 1947.
Use lowercase for the forces of other nations: the Israeli air force.

-- 24 of 1028 --

This approach has been adopted for consistency, because many foreign nations
do not use air force as the proper name.
See military academies; military titles.
air force base See air base.
Air Force One The Air Force applies this name to any of its aircraft the
president of the United States may be using.
In ordinary usage, however, Air Force One is the name of the Air Force plane
normally reserved for the president’s use.
Air France Corporate name is Air France-KLM. Headquarters of this airline is
in Roissy, France.
Air India Headquarters of this airline is in Mumbai, India.
airline, airlines Capitalize airlines, air lines and airways when used as part of a
proper airline name.
Companies that use Airlines in the title include Alaska, American, Hawaiian,
Japan, Southwest and United.
Companies that use Airways include British, JetBlue and Qantas.
Delta uses Air Lines.
Companies that use none of these include Aer Lingus, Aeromexico, Air
Canada, Air France, Air India, Alitalia, Emirates and Iberia.
On second reference, use just the proper name (Delta), an abbreviation if
applicable, or the airline. Acceptable abbreviations are ANA for All Nippon
Airways, BA for British Airways and JAL for Japan Airlines. Use airlines when
referring to more than one line.
Do not use air line, air lines or airways in generic references to an airline.
airman See military titles.
Air National Guard
airport Capitalize as part of a proper name: LaGuardia Airport, O’Hare
International Airport.
The first name of an individual and the word international may be deleted from
a formal airport name while the remainder is capitalized: John F. Kennedy

-- 25 of 1028 --

International Airport, Kennedy International Airport, or Kennedy Airport. Use
whichever is appropriate in the context.
Do not make up names, however. There is no Boston Airport, for example. The
Boston airport (lowercase airport) would be acceptable if for some reason the
proper name, Logan International Airport, were not used.
airsoft gun A gun that commonly shoots plastic spheres, typically propelled by
compressed air or springs. Pellet gun is acceptable on first reference.
airstrike
airtight
air traffic controller No hyphen.
airways The system of routes that the federal government has established for
airplane traffic.
See the airline, airlines entry for its use in carriers’ names.
aka Abbreviation for also known as.
Alabama Abbreviate Ala. in datelines only; spell out in stories. Postal code: AL
See state names.
Al-Aqsa Mosque The mosque completed in the eighth century atop the Haram
al-Sharif, or Noble Sanctuary, in the Old City of Jerusalem; Arabs also use Al-
Aqsa to refer to the whole area, which houses the Dome of the Rock shrine, too.
To Jews the area is known as the Temple Mount, the site of the ancient Jewish
temples.
alarms Avoid referring to a fire in terms of the number of “alarms,” which may
mean little to a distant reader. Depending on the city or town, a two-alarm fire
could involve widely varying numbers of firefighters. Instead, specify the number
of firefighters or quantity of equipment.
Alaska Do not abbreviate in datelines or stories. Largest land area of the 50 states.
Postal code: AK
See state names.

-- 26 of 1028 --

Alaska Air Group Inc. Parent company of Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air.
Headquarters is in Seattle.
Alaska Native See race-related coverage.
Alaska Standard Time The time zone used in all of Alaska, except the
western Aleutian Islands and St. Lawrence Island, which are on Hawaii-Aleutian
Standard Time.
There is also an Alaska Daylight Time.
See time zones.
Alberta A province of western Canada. Do not abbreviate.
See datelines.
albino, albinos
alcoholic As an adjective, use it to describe beverages. For people, say people or
person with alcoholism, or person recovering from alcoholism. Many people
with the disease refer to themselves as alcoholics, but leading authorities on
addiction say such language can be self-punitive and stigmatizing. Avoid
describing people as drunks, though the word can be used as an adjective to
describe someone who is temporarily intoxicated by alcohol. See addiction.
Alcoholics Anonymous AA is acceptable on second reference.
alderman Do not abbreviate. See legislative titles.
alert See weather terms.
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. An e-commerce and online services provider.
Headquarters is in Hangzhou, China.
A-list
Alitalia Airlines Headquarters of this airline is in Rome.
Al-Jazeera Pan-Arab satellite television news network based in Doha, Qatar.

-- 27 of 1028 --

all- Use a hyphen:
all-around (not all-round)
all-clear
all-out
all-star
See all right; all time, all-time.
Allah The Arabic word for God. The word God should be used, unless the Arabic
name is used in a quote written or spoken in English.
Allahu akbar The Arabic phrase for God is great.
allege The word must be used with great care.
Some guidelines:
— Avoid any suggestion that the writer is making an allegation.
— Specify the source of an allegation. In a criminal case, it should be an arrest
record, an indictment or the statement of a public official connected with the
case.
— Use alleged bribe or similar phrase when necessary to make it clear that an
unproved action is not being treated as fact. Be sure that the source of the charge
is specified elsewhere in the story.
— Avoid, where possible, alleged victim. It is too easily construed as skepticism of
a victim’s account.
— Avoid redundant uses of alleged. It is proper to say: The district attorney alleged
that she took a bribe. Or: The district attorney accused her of taking a bribe.
But not: The district attorney accused her of allegedly taking a bribe.
— Do not use alleged to describe an event that is known to have occurred, when the
dispute is over who participated in it. Do not say: He attended the alleged
meeting when what you mean is: He allegedly attended the meeting.
— Do not use alleged as a routine qualifier. Instead, use a word such as apparent,
ostensible or reputed.
For guidelines on related words, see accused; arrest; indict.
Allegheny Mountains Or simply: the Alleghenies.
Allegiant Air Airline is owned by Allegiant Travel Co. Headquarters is in Las
Vegas.

-- 28 of 1028 --

alley Do not abbreviate. See addresses.
allies, allied Capitalize allies or allied only when referring to the combination of
the United States and its Allies during World War I or World War II: The Allies
defeated Germany. He was in the Allied invasion of France.
All Nippon Airways Headquarters of this airline is in Tokyo.
all right Never alright. Hyphenate only if used colloquially as a compound
modifier: He is an all-right guy.
all-terrain vehicle ATV is acceptable on second reference.
all time, all-time An all-time high, but the greatest runner of all time.
Avoid the redundant phrase all-time record.
allude, refer To allude to something is to speak of it without specifically
mentioning it.
To refer is to mention it directly.
allusion, illusion Allusion means an indirect reference: The allusion was to his
opponent’s war record.
Illusion means an unreal or false impression: The scenic director created the
illusion of choppy seas.
alma mater
Alphabet Inc. See Google.
al-Qaida Muslim militant group founded by Osama bin Laden that carried out the
attacks in the United States on Sept. 11, 2001. Bin Laden was killed by U.S. forces
in Pakistan in May 2011. Al-Qaida’s current leader is Ayman al-Zawahri.
Affiliated groups include:
al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula, operating in Yemen and Saudi Arabia.
Nusra Front, operating in Syria.
al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb, operating in the Sahel region, a region along
the Sahara Desert stretching across North Africa.

-- 29 of 1028 --

Khorasan group, an al-Qaida cell that the United States says operated in Syria
to plot attacks on the U.S.
Al-Quds The Arabic name for Jerusalem; it means the holy.
al-Shabab The preferred spelling for the Somali militant group.
also-ran (n.)
altar, alter An altar is a tablelike platform used in a religious service.
To alter is to change.
Altria Group Inc. Headquarters is in Richmond, Virginia.
“alt-right” A political grouping or tendency mixing racism, white nationalism,
anti-Semitism and populism; a name currently embraced by some white
supremacists and white nationalists to refer to themselves and their ideology,
which emphasizes preserving and protecting the white race in the United States.
Avoid using the term generically and without definition, because it is not well-
known globally and the term may exist primarily as a public relations device to
make its supporters’ actual beliefs less clear and more acceptable to a broader
audience. In AP stories discussing what the movement says about itself, the term
“alt-right” (quotation marks, hyphen and lowercase) may be used in quotes or
modified as in the self-described “alt-right” or so-called alt-right.
Depending on the specifics of the situation, such beliefs might be termed racist,
white supremacist or neo-Nazi; be sure to describe the specifics. Whenever “alt-
right” is used in a story, include a definition: an offshoot of conservatism mixing
racism, white nationalism, anti-Semitism and populism, or, more simply, a white
nationalist movement.
When writing on extreme groups, be precise and provide evidence to support
the characterization. Report their actions, associations, history and positions to
reveal their actual beliefs and philosophy, as well as how others see them.
Some related definitions:
RACISM The broad term for asserting racial or ethnic discrimination or
superiority based solely on race, ethnic or religious origins; it can be by any group
against any other group.
WHITE NATIONALISM A subset of racist beliefs that calls for a separate territory
and/or enhanced legal rights and protections for white people. Critics accuse white
nationalists of being white supremacists in disguise.

-- 30 of 1028 --

WHITE SEPARATISM A term sometimes used as a synonym for white
nationalism but differs in that it advocates a form of segregation in which races
would live apart but in the same general geographic area.
WHITE SUPREMACY The racist belief that whites are superior to justify political,
economic and social suppression of nonwhite people and other minority groups.
NEO-NAZISM Combines racist and white supremacist beliefs with admiration for
an authoritarian, totalitarian style of government such as the German Third Reich
to enforce its beliefs.
ANTIFA Shorthand for anti-fascists, an umbrella description for the far-left-
leaning militant groups that resist neo-Nazis and white supremacists at
demonstrations and other events. Until the term becomes better known, include a
definition in close proximity to first use of the word.
“ALT-LEFT” A term that some use to describe far-left factions. See “alt-right”
for usage guidelines.
See race-related coverage.
alumnus, alumni, alumna, alumnae Use alumnus (alumni in the plural)
when referring to a man who has attended a school.
Use alumna (alumnae in the plural) for similar references to a woman.
Use alumni when referring to a group of men and women.
Alzheimer’s disease A progressive, irreversible neurological disorder and the
most common form of dementia. Most victims are older than 65, but Alzheimer’s
can strike at earlier ages.
Symptoms may include memory loss, impairment of judgment, disorientation,
personality change, difficulty in learning and loss of language skills. Alzheimer’s
disease is defined by specific changes in the brain that occur before symptoms
appear. Current drugs only ease symptoms and don’t reverse the course of the
disease.
AM Acceptable in all references to the amplitude modulation system of radio
transmission.
ambassador Capitalize as a formal title before a name.
See titles.
Amber Alert A procedure for rapidly publicizing the disappearance of a child.

-- 31 of 1028 --

America, American, Americans Can be used to refer to the United States
and U.S. citizens if that meaning is clear in the context. Use the modifier U.S. in
referring to the federal government and its officials in the United States.
American Airlines Headquarters is in Fort Worth, Texas. Parent company is
American Airlines Group Inc. The company is the result of the 2013 merger of
AMR Corp. and US Airways Group.
American Baptist Association See Baptist churches in Religion chapter.
American Baptist Churches in the U.S.A. See Baptist churches in Religion
chapter.
American Bar Association ABA is acceptable on second reference. Also: the
bar association, the association.
Headquarters is in Chicago.
American Broadcasting Cos. See ABC.
American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) ACLU is acceptable on second
reference.
Headquarters is in New York.
American depositary receipt A negotiable certificate representing a foreign
company’s equity or debt. ADR is acceptable on second reference.
American depositary share A security issued by a foreign company
representing an ownership interest in that company. It can represent a fixed
number of securities on deposit, or a fraction of them. ADS is acceptable on
second reference.
American Express Co. Headquarters is in New York.
American Federation of Government Employees Use this full name on
first reference to prevent confusion with other unions that represent government
workers. AFGE is acceptable on second reference.
Headquarters is in Washington.

-- 32 of 1028 --

American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial
Organizations AFL-CIO is acceptable in all references.
Headquarters is in Washington.
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees
AFSCME is acceptable on second reference.
Headquarters is in Washington.
American Federation of Teachers AFT is acceptable on second reference.
Headquarters is in Washington.
American Hospital Association AHA is acceptable on second reference.
Also: the hospital association, the association.
Headquarters is in Chicago.
American Indian See race-related coverage.
American International Group Inc. AIG is acceptable on second reference.
Headquarters is in New York.
Americanisms Words and phrases that have become part of the English
language as spoken in the United States are listed with a star in Webster’s New
World College Dictionary.
Most Americanisms are acceptable in news stories, but let the context be the
guide.
American Legion Capitalize also the Legion in second reference. Members are
Legionnaires, just as members of the Lions Club are Lions.
Legion and Legionnaires are capitalized because they are not being used in
their common noun sense. A legion (lowercase) is a large group of soldiers or, by
derivation, a large number of items: His friends are legion. A legionnaire
(lowercase) is a member of such a legion.
See fraternal organizations and service clubs.
American Medical Association AMA is acceptable on second reference.
Headquarters is in Chicago.
American Petroleum Institute API is acceptable on second reference.

-- 33 of 1028 --

Headquarters is in Washington.
American Postal Workers Union This union represents clerks and similar
employees who work inside post offices.
Use the full name on first reference to prevent confusion with the National
Association of Letter Carriers. The shortened form Postal Workers union is
acceptable on second reference.
Headquarters is in Washington.
American Press Institute API is acceptable on second reference.
Headquarters is in Arlington, Virginia.
American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals This
organization is limited to the five boroughs of New York City and neighboring
Suffolk County in providing animal adoption services, although it has offices
elsewhere that offer legal advice and other services to other animal welfare
organizations. ASPCA is acceptable on second reference.
See Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers ASCAP is
acceptable on second reference.
Headquarters is in New York.
AmeriCorps
amid Not amidst.
ammunition See weapons.
amnesty See pardon, parole, probation.
amok Not amuck.
among, between The maxim that between introduces two items and among
introduces more than two covers most questions about how to use these words:
The choice is between fish and tofu. The funds were divided among Ford, Carter
and McCarthy.

-- 34 of 1028 --

However, between is the correct word when expressing the relationships of
three or more items considered one pair at a time: The games between the
Yankees, Phillies and Mets have been rollicking ones.
As with all prepositions, any pronouns that follow these words must be in the
objective case: among us, between him and her, between you and me.
amount, number Use amount for things that cannot be counted individually:
the amount of milk in the refrigerator, the amount of courage it takes to climb
Mount Everest. For things that can be counted individually, use number: The
number of soldiers in an army, the number of books in a library. Similarly, use
less for things that can’t be counted — less paper, less paint — and fewer for
things that can: fewer days, fewer votes. However, some expressions are
exceptions: Write the jingle in 25 words or less.
ampersand (&) Use the ampersand when it is part of a company’s formal name
or composition title: House & Garden, Procter & Gamble, Wheeling & Lake Erie
Railway.
The ampersand should not otherwise be used in place of and, except for some
accepted abbreviations: B&B, R&B.
a.m., p.m. Lowercase, with periods. Avoid the redundant 10 a.m. this morning.
Amsterdam The city in the Netherlands stands alone in datelines.
Amtrak This acronym, drawn from the words American travel by track, may be
used in all references to the National Railroad Passenger Corp. Do not use
AMTRAK. Headquarters is in Washington.
AMVETS Acceptable in all references for American Veterans, the organization
formerly known as American Veterans of World War II, Korea, and Vietnam.
Headquarters is in Washington.
Android An operating system created by Google that’s used in many smartphones
and tablets.
Anglo- Always capitalized. No hyphen when the word that follows is in
lowercase:
Anglomania

-- 35 of 1028 --

Anglophile
Anglophobe
Use a hyphen when the word that follows is capitalized:
Anglo-American
Anglo-Catholic
Anglo-Indian
Anglo-Saxon
angry At someone or with someone.
animals Do not apply a personal pronoun to an animal unless its sex has been
established or the animal has a name: The dog was scared; it barked. Rover was
scared; he barked. The cat, which was scared, ran to its basket. Susie the cat,
who was scared, ran to her basket. The bull tosses his horns.
Capitalize the name of a specific animal, and use Roman numerals to show
sequence: Bowser, Whirlaway II.
For breed names, follow the spelling and capitalization in Webster’s New
World College Dictionary. For breeds not listed in the dictionary, capitalize words
derived from proper nouns; use lowercase elsewhere: basset hound, Boston
terrier.
animal welfare activist Use instead of animal rights activist.
anniversary Avoid terms such as six-month anniversary (or other time spans
less than a year).
anno Domini See A.D.
annual Avoid the term first annual.
annual meeting Lowercase in all uses.
anonymous sources Whenever possible, we pursue information on the record.
When a source insists on background or off-the-record ground rules, we must
adhere to a strict set of guidelines.
Under AP’s rules, material from anonymous sources may be used only if:
— The material is information and not opinion or speculation, and is vital to the
news report.

-- 36 of 1028 --

— The information is not available except under the conditions of anonymity
imposed by the source.
— The source is reliable, and in a position to have accurate information.
Reporters who intend to use material from anonymous sources must get
approval from their news managers.
Explain in the story why the source requested anonymity. And, when it’s
relevant, describe the source’s motive for disclosing the information.
The story also must provide attribution that establishes the source’s credibility;
simply quoting a source is not allowed. Be as descriptive as possible about the
source of information. If space is limited, use source as a last resort. Official or a
similar word will often suffice, including in headlines. See source.
Examples:
Speaking on customary condition of anonymity in line with government
rules, the official said the two sides were engaged “in very fierce” battles near
the border crossing, and that one woman was wounded by a stray bullet.
Incorrect: Granting anonymity “on customary condition … in line with
government rules” is insufficient. Readers need a plausible explanation of such a
condition, and why we’re accepting it. For instance, “The rules of the official’s
job did not allow him to be quoted by name.”
A security official, who requested anonymity because of the sensitivity of the
case, said the suspect was monitoring and recording the movements of tourists
before his arrest in July.
Incorrect: First, we grant anonymity only to those who insist on it, not those
who request it. Second, granting anonymity because of the sensitivity of the case
is insufficient explanation. Did the official insist on anonymity because he was not
allowed to speak with reporters? Because he was not authorized to release
information in advance of a public announcement of details of the case?
Speaking privately, a senior Foreign Ministry official said any further
increase in tension could strengthen “warlike” sentiment on both sides and
make a resolution of the problem even more difficult.
Incorrect: Speaking privately isn’t the same thing as insisting on anonymity, so
we cannot use the privately explanation. Moreover, the official is speculating on
something that might happen. We grant anonymity for factual information, not
speculation or opinion.
Sometimes a government or corporation intentionally leaks information, but
insists we publish it attributed to an anonymous official. If we cannot convince the
government or company to go on the record, it’s best to use a formulation that
implies that the release of the information was official, even though anonymous.
For instance: “... according to the official, who insisted on anonymity because he
was not allowed to use his own name in releasing the findings.”

-- 37 of 1028 --

For additional guidance, see Statement of News Values.
another Another is not a synonym for additional; it refers to an element that
somehow duplicates a previously stated quantity.
Right: Ten people took the test; another 10 refused.
Wrong: Ten people took the test; another 20 refused.
Right: Ten people took the test; 20 others refused.
Antarctic, Antarctica, Antarctic Ocean
ante- The rules in prefixes apply, but in general, no hyphen. Some examples:
antebellum
antedate
anthems See composition titles. Lowercase the term national anthem.
anti- Hyphenate all except the following words, which have specific meanings of
their own:
antibiotic
antibody
anticlimax
anticoagulant
antidepressant
antidote
antifreeze
antigen
antihistamine
antiknock
antimatter
antimony
antiparticle*
antipasto
antiperspirant
antiphon
antiphony
antipollution
antipsychotic
antiseptic
antiserum

-- 38 of 1028 --

antithesis
antitoxin
antitrust
antioxidant
antitussive
*And similar terms in physics such as antiproton.
This approach has been adopted in the interests of readability and easily
remembered consistency.
It’s anti-lock in Webster’s New World College Dictionary. But note these
Stylebook exceptions to Webster’s spellings:
anti-abortion
anti-aircraft
anti-labor
anti-social
anti-war
See Antichrist, anti-Christ in Religion chapter.
anticipate, expect Anticipate means to expect and prepare for something;
expect does not include the notion of preparation:
They expect a record crowd. They have anticipated it by adding more seats to
the auditorium.
antitrust Any law or policy designed to encourage competition by curtailing
monopolistic power and unfair business practices.
anybody, any body, anyone, any one One word for an indefinite
reference: Anyone can do that.
Two words when the emphasis is on singling out one element of a group: Any
one of them may speak up.
AOL An online services provider owned by Verizon Communications Inc. Do not
use its former name, America Online.
AP Acceptable on second reference for The Associated Press.
On second reference, AP or the AP (no capital on the) may be used.
See Associated Press.

-- 39 of 1028 --

API Abbreviation for application programming interface. A programming
interface that a website or a piece of software uses to allow other websites or
software to interact with it.
apostolic delegate, papal nuncio An apostolic delegate is a Roman
Catholic diplomat chosen by the pope to be his envoy to the church in a nation that
does not have formal diplomatic relations with the Vatican.
A papal nuncio is the pope’s envoy to a nation with which the Vatican has
diplomatic relations.
apostrophe (’) See entry in Punctuation section.
app Short for application and acceptable on first reference. A program that runs
inside another service. Many cellphones, tablets, operating systems and web
browsers allow apps to be downloaded to give the user access to additional
functions.
Appalachia In the broadest sense, the word applies to the entire region along the
Appalachian Mountains, which extend from Maine into northern Alabama.
In a sense that often suggests economic depression and poverty, the reference is
to sections of eastern Tennessee, eastern Kentucky, southeastern Ohio and the
western portion of West Virginia.
The Appalachian Regional Commission, established by federal law in 1965,
has a mandate to foster development in 397 counties in 13 states — all of West
Virginia and parts of Alabama, Georgia, Kentucky, Maryland, Mississippi, New
York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee and
Virginia.
When the word Appalachia is used, specify the extent of the area in question.
Appalachian Mountains Or simply: the Appalachians.
appeals court See U.S. Court of Appeals.
Apple Inc. Headquarters is in Cupertino, California.
appreciation Increase in value of property, as opposed to depreciation.
approve See act, amendment, bill, law, measure, ordinance, resolution, rule, statute entry.

-- 40 of 1028 --

April Fools’ Day
APTN, AP Radio Do not refer to these units of The Associated Press as if they
were separate entities. Say Alexander Barbosa told the AP [not APTN] in Rio de
Janeiro; AP [not APTN] video journalist John Smith contributed to this report.
See Associated Press, The.
Arab Spring Wave of pro-democratic protests, revolutions and civil wars that
have swept some Arab nations since 2011.
Arabic names In general, use an English spelling that approximates the way a
name sounds in Arabic.
If an individual has a preferred spelling in English, use that. If usage has
established a particular spelling, use that.
Problems in transliteration of Arabic names often are traceable to
pronunciations that vary from region to region. The g, for example, is pronounced
like the g of go mainly in Egypt, and the j of joy in the rest of the Arab world.
Thus it is Gamal in Egypt and Jamal in nations on the peninsula. Follow local
practice in deciding which letter to use.
Arabs commonly are known by two names (Hassan Nasrallah), or by three
(Mohammed Mahdi Akef). Follow the individual’s preference on first reference.
On second reference, use only the final name in the sequence.
The articles al- or el- may be used or dropped depending on the person’s
preference or established usage. (Ayman al-Zawahri, al-Zawahri, or Moammar
Gadhafi, Gadhafi). The article al- or el- should not be capitalized.
The Arabic word for son (ibn or bin) is sometimes part of a name. On second
reference, it is often dropped, using only the final name. In cases of personal
preference or common usage, it should be retained. (Osama bin Laden, bin
Laden; Abdul-Aziz bin Baz, bin Baz).
The word abu or abou, meaning father of, occasionally is used as a last name
(Abdel-Halim Abou Ghazala). Capitalize and repeat it on second reference: Abou
Ghazala.
The word abdul, meaning “servant of (God),” generally does not stand alone as
a name, except sometimes in South Asia and Afghanistan. It is used in
combination with a second name (an Arabic word for an attribute of God). This
combination should be hyphenated, unless the individual prefers otherwise, and
capitalized (Adil Abdul-Mahdi, Abdul-Mahdi). In Egypt and some other
countries, Abdul is often written Abdel, reflecting local pronunciation.

-- 41 of 1028 --

For royalty, the titles king, emir, sheikh and imam are used, but prince usually
replaces emir. Some Arabs are known only by the title and a given name on first
reference (King Abdullah). Others are known by a complete name (Sheikh
Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum). Follow the common usage on first
reference. On second reference, drop the title and use only the first name
(Abdullah, Mohammed). The full names of many Gulf royals include the word Al,
which in their case should be capitalized without a hyphen since it means family
of.
The al should be capitalized in front of most Muslim and Arab institutions,
universities, newspapers and major mosques, as in Al-Azhar, the university in
Cairo; Al-Aqsa, the Jerusalem mosque, the newspaper Al-Ahram and the satellite
television news network Al-Jazeera.
Arabic numerals The numerical figures 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9.
In general, use Arabic forms unless denoting the sequence of wars or
establishing a personal sequence for people or animals. See Roman numerals.
Separate entries list more details and examples. For a full list, see numerals.
arbitrage Buying currencies, commercial bills or securities in one market and
selling them at the same time in another to make a profit on the price discrepancy.
arbitrate, mediate Both terms are used in reports about labor negotiations, but
they should not be interchanged.
One who arbitrates hears evidence from all people concerned, then hands down
a decision.
One who mediates listens to arguments of both parties and tries by the exercise
of reason or persuasion to bring them to an agreement.
arch- No hyphen after this prefix unless it precedes a capitalized word:
archbishop
archenemy
arch-Republican
archrival
archaeology
arctic Lowercase for adjective meaning frigid; capitalize for region around the
North Pole. Arctic Circle, arctic fox, Arctic Ocean

-- 42 of 1028 --

area codes See telephone numbers.
Argentine The preferred term for the people and culture of Argentina.
Arizona Abbreviate Ariz. in datelines only; spell out in stories. Postal code: AZ
See state names.
Arkansas Abbreviate Ark. in datelines only; spell out in stories. Postal code: AR
See state names.
army Capitalize when referring to U.S. forces: the U.S. Army, the Army, Army
regulations. Do not use the abbreviation USA.
Use lowercase for the forces of other nations: the French army.
This approach has been adopted for consistency, because many foreign nations
do not use army as the proper name.
See military academies; military titles.
arrest To avoid any suggestion that someone is being judged before a trial, do not
use a phrase such as arrested for killing. Instead, use arrested on a charge of
killing. If a charge hasn’t been filed, arrested on suspicion of, or a similar phrase,
should be used.
For guidelines on related words, see accused; allege; indict; sue.
arrive It requires the preposition at. Do not omit, as airline dispatchers often do in:
He will arrive LaGuardia.
artificial intelligence Software or computer systems that emulate aspects of
human cognition. Such systems are not sentient, but can accomplish human-level
tasks such as visual perception, understanding and using speech, and learning —
though only to a limited extent in many cases. AI is acceptable on second
reference. See machine learning.
artillery See weapons.
artworks Lowercase impressionism, modernism and other art styles and
movements unless used in formal titles of shows or exhibits with quotation marks.
Exception: Bauhaus is capitalized as the name of a school. Gothic, Renaissance
and other historical periods are capitalized for art and architecture from those ages.

-- 43 of 1028 --

Titles of paintings are enclosed in quotes: “Mona Lisa.” Sculptures are capitalized
without quotes: The Thinker, Michelangelo’s Pieta.
See composition titles.
as See like, as.
ASCII An acronym for American Standard Code for Information Interchange.
A numeric code used to represent the letters of the Roman alphabet, numbers and
punctuation marks. Use of the acronym on first reference is acceptable if it is
identified as a code.
asexual Describes people who don’t experience sexual attraction, though they
may feel other types of attraction, such as romantic or aesthetic. Not synonymous
with and does not assume celibacy. See LGBT, LGBTQ; gender.
Asian American See race-related coverage.
Asian, Asiatic Use Asian or Asians when referring to people.
Some Asians regard Asiatic as offensive when applied to people.
Asperger’s syndrome After Hans Asperger, an Austrian pediatrician. A
milder form of autism, Asperger’s was once a separate diagnosis but is now part of
a broader term called autism spectrum disorder. People with this condition can
have high intelligence and narrow, sometimes obsessive interests but lack social
skills. See autism spectrum disorder.
assassin, killer, murderer An assassin is one who kills a politically important
or prominent person.
A killer is anyone who kills with a motive of any kind.
A murderer is one who is convicted of murder in a court of law.
Preferred use: Joe Smith was convicted of second-degree murder.
See execute; homicide, murder, manslaughter.
assassination Use the term only if it involves the murder of a politically
important or prominent individual by surprise attack.
assassination, date of A prominent person is shot one day and dies the next.
Which day was he assassinated? The day he was attacked.

-- 44 of 1028 --

assault, battery Assault almost always implies physical contact and sudden,
intense violence.
Legally, however, assault means simply to threaten violence, as in pointing a
pistol at an individual without firing it. Assault and battery is the legal term when
the victim was touched by the assaulter or something the assaulter put in motion.
assembly Capitalize when part of the proper name for the lower house of a
legislature: the California Assembly. Retain capitalization if the state name is
dropped but the reference is specific:
SACRAMENTO, Calif. (AP) — The state Assembly ...
If a legislature is known as a general assembly: the Missouri General
Assembly, the General Assembly, the assembly. Legislature also may be used as
the proper name, however. See legislature.
Lowercase all plural uses: the California and New York assemblies.
assemblyman, assemblywoman Do not abbreviate. See legislative titles.
assets Everything a company or an individual owns or is owed.
Assets may be broken down as:
Current assets: cash, investments, money due to a corporation, unused raw
materials and inventories of finished but unsold products.
Fixed assets: buildings, machinery and land.
Intangible assets: patents and goodwill.
See goodwill.
asset-backed security A financial security backed by loans, leases, credit-card
debt, royalties, a company’s accounts receivables, etc. ABS should not be used in
copy.
asset, fixed Plant, land, equipment, long-term investments that cannot be readily
liquefied without disturbing the operation of the business.
assistant Do not abbreviate. Capitalize only when part of a formal title before a
name: Assistant Secretary of State Richard Boucher. Whenever practical,
however, an appositional construction should be used: Richard Boucher, assistant
secretary of state.
See titles.

-- 45 of 1028 --

associate Never abbreviate. Apply the same capitalization norms listed under
assistant.
Associated Press, The The newsgathering cooperative dating from 1846.
Use The Associated Press on first reference (the capitalized article is part of the
formal name).
On second reference, AP or the AP (no capital on the) may be used.
Do not refer to APTN and AP Radio, units of the AP, as if they were separate
entities. Say Alexander Barbosa told the AP [not APTN] in Rio de Janeiro; AP
[not APTN] video journalist John Smith contributed to this report.
The address is 200 Liberty St., New York, NY 10281. The telephone number is
212-621-1500.
Online: http://www.ap.org
See AP.
Association Do not abbreviate. Capitalize as part of a proper name: American
Medical Association.
assure See ensure, insure, assure.
asterisk Do not use the symbol. It rarely translates and in many cases cannot be
seen by AP computers or received by newspaper or other computers.
astronaut It is not a formal title. Do not capitalize when used before a name:
astronaut John Glenn.
AT&T Inc. The full name of the business formerly known as American
Telephone & Telegraph Co., today one of the country’s largest wireless and
broadband providers. The company owns DirecTV and the Warner Bros. movie
and TV studio and TV networks including HBO, CNN, TBS and TNT. The
government is appealing the decision that said AT&T could buy Time Warner,
though the deal has been closed. Headquarters is in Dallas.
atheist See agnostic, atheist.
athlete’s foot
Atlanta The city in Georgia stands alone in datelines.

-- 46 of 1028 --

Atlantic Ocean
Atlantic Standard Time, Atlantic Daylight Time Used in the Maritime
Provinces of Canada and in Puerto Rico.
See time zones.
at large Usually two words for an individual representing more than a single
district: councilman at large.
But it is ambassador-at-large for an ambassador assigned to no particular
country.
ATM Acceptable in all references for automated teller machine.
Do not use the redundant ATM machine.
attache It is not a formal title. Always lowercase.
attorney general, attorneys general Never abbreviate. Capitalize only
when used as a title before a name: Attorney General William Barr.
See titles.
attorney, lawyer In common usage the words are interchangeable.
Technically, however, an attorney is someone (usually, but not necessarily, a
lawyer) empowered to act for another. Such an individual occasionally is called an
attorney in fact.
A lawyer is a person admitted to practice in a court system. Such an individual
occasionally is called an attorney at law.
Do not abbreviate. Do not capitalize unless it is an officeholder’s title: defense
attorney Perry Mason, attorney Perry Mason, District Attorney Hamilton
Burger.
Power of attorney is a written statement legally authorizing a person to act for
another.
See lawyer.
attribution AP news reports must attribute facts not gathered or confirmed on our
own, whether the pickup is from a newspaper, website, broadcaster or blog, U.S.
or international, AP member or subscriber. AP reports must also credit other
organizations when they break a story and AP matches or further develops it.
News from a government, agency, organization, company or other recognized

-- 47 of 1028 --

group may be attributed to that entity on first reference in the story: the White
House announced. In a follow-up attribution, specify whether the information
came from a spokesman or other named official or in a news release.
augur A transitive verb. Do not follow it with the preposition for. Correct: The tea
leaves augur a time of success.
“Auld Lang Syne” Sung to greet the New Year, poem by Robert Burns set to
Scottish music.
autism spectrum disorder An umbrella term for a group of developmental
disorders that can involve varying degrees of language and social impairments,
and repetitive behaviors. It encompasses mild autism and the more classic form.
Acceptable to use the term autism in stories. See Asperger’s syndrome.
author A noun. Do not use it as a verb.
automaker, automakers
automatic See pistol; weapons.
autonomous vehicles Describes cars or trucks that can monitor the road and
drive for an entire trip without the intervention of a human. Also can be called
self-driving. The term driverless should not be used unless there is no human
backup driver. In cases where vehicles can perform some driving functions
themselves but require human intervention for other tasks, such as changing lanes
or driving at low speeds, use semi-autonomous or partially self-driving. As of
2019 there were no autonomous vehicles for sale to the public, but many with
semi-autonomous capabilities.
Autopilot The trade name for the semi-autonomous driving system offered in
Tesla Inc.’s vehicles. Autopilot can maintain a set speed, brake automatically,
change lanes and keep a vehicle within its lane. A driver’s hands need to touch the
wheel at certain intervals or the system will turn off. Some other automakers offer
similar systems under different trade names, such as Mercedes-Benz’s Drive Pilot.
Autopilot, Drive Pilot and other trade names should be capitalized; the generic use
of autopilot is lowercase. Tesla is gathering data when owners engage the

-- 48 of 1028 --

Autopilot feature. In today’s airliners, the autopilot is on nearly the entire time
the plane is in the air.
Auto Train Rail service that carries passengers and their cars. Owned and
operated by Amtrak.
autoworker, autoworkers One word when used generically.
But United Auto Workers when referring to the union.
autumn See seasons.
avatar A version of yourself that you put forward in an online or video game
setting. Sometimes bears a strong resemblance to the user; at other times, it is used
to highlight a company or organization’s brand, make a political statement or act
out fantasies of a wished-for identity.
avenue Abbreviate only with a numbered address. See addresses.
average, mean, median, norm Average refers to the result obtained by
dividing a sum by the number of quantities added together: The average of 7, 9,
17 is 33 divided by 3, or 11.
Mean, in its sense used in arithmetic and statistics, is an average and is
determined by adding the series of numbers and dividing the sum by the number of
cases: The mean temperature of five days with temperatures of 67, 62, 68, 69, 64
is 66.
Median is the middle number of points in a series arranged in order of size:
The median grade in the group of 50, 55, 85, 88, 92 is 85. The average is 74.
Norm implies a standard of average performance for a given group: The child
was below the norm for his age in reading comprehension.
average of The phrase takes a plural verb in a construction such as: An average
of 100 new jobs are created daily.
averse See adverse, averse.
Avianca Headquarters of this airline is in Bogota, Colombia.
awards and decorations Capitalize them: Bronze Star, Medal of Honor, etc.

-- 49 of 1028 --

See Nobel Prize; Pulitzer Prizes.
awhile (adv.) a while He plans to stay awhile (adv.). He plans to stay for a
while (n.).
AWOL Acceptable in all references for absent without leave.
ax Not axe.
The verb forms: ax, axed, axing.
Axis The alliance of Germany, Italy and Japan during World War II.
Aymara An ethnic group around Lake Titicaca, in Bolivia and Peru, or the
language of these people.

-- 50 of 1028 --

b
baby boom, baby boomer Reference to those born between 1946 and 1964, a
span defined by the U.S. Census Bureau. Hyphenated as an adjective: baby-boom
generation. See Generation X; millennials.
baby bump The rounded abdominal area of a pregnant woman. Avoid using.
babysit, babysitting, babysat, babysitter
baccalaureate
Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Science A bachelor’s degree or bachelor’s
is acceptable in any reference.
See academic degrees for guidelines on when the abbreviations B.A. or B.S. are
acceptable.
backfire In wildfires, this term is for a fire set along the inner edge of a fire line to
consume the fuel in the fire’s path or change its direction.
backstage Part of the stage or theater behind the proscenium, particularly the
wings and dressing rooms. Also can refer to the press area where award winners
meet with the news media.
backup (n. and adj.) back up (v.)
backward Not backwards.
backyard One word in all uses.
bad, badly Bad should not be used as an adverb. It does not lose its status as an
adjective, however, in a sentence such as I feel bad. Such a statement is the
idiomatic equivalent of I am in bad health. An alternative, I feel badly, could be
interpreted as meaning that your sense of touch was bad.

-- 51 of 1028 --

See good, well.
Baghdad The city in Iraq stands alone in datelines.
Bagram Airfield The preferred spelling for the U.S. base in Afghanistan.
Bahamas In datelines, give the name of the city or town followed by Bahamas:
NASSAU, Bahamas (AP) —
In stories, use Bahamas, the Bahamas or the Bahama Islands as the
construction of a sentence dictates.
Identify a specific island in the text if relevant.
bail Bail is money or property that will be forfeited to the court if an accused
individual fails to appear for trial. It may be posted as follows:
— The accused may deposit with the court the full amount or its equivalent in
collateral such as a deed to property.
— A friend or relative may make such a deposit with the court.
— The accused may pay a professional bail bondsman a percentage of the total
figure. The bondsman, in turn, guarantees the court that it will receive from him
the full amount in the event the individual fails to appear for trial.
It is correct in all cases to say that an accused posted bail or posted a bail bond
(the money held by the court is a form of bond). When a distinction is desired, say
that the individual posted his own bail, that bail was posted by a friend or relative,
or that bail was obtained through a bondsman.
balance of payments, balance of trade The balance of payments is the
difference between the amount of money that leaves a nation and the amount that
enters it during a period of time.
The balance of payments is determined by computing the amount of money a
nation and its citizens send abroad for all purposes — including goods and
services purchased, travel, loans, foreign aid, etc. — and subtracting from it the
amount that foreign nations send into the nation for similar purposes.
The balance of trade is the difference between the monetary value of the goods
a nation imports and the goods it exports.
An example illustrating the difference between the two:
The United States and its citizens might send $10 billion abroad — $5 billion
for goods, $3 billion for loans and foreign aid, $1 billion for services and $1

-- 52 of 1028 --

billion for tourism and other purposes.
Other nations might send $9 billion into the United States — $6 billion for U.S.
goods, $2 billion for services and $1 billion for tourism and other purposes.
The United States would have a balance-of-payments deficit of $1 billion but a
balance-of-trade surplus of $1 billion.
balance sheet A listing of assets, liabilities and net worth showing the financial
position of a company at the specific time. A bank balance sheet is generally
referred to as a statement of condition.
ballclub, ballpark, ballplayer, ballroom
balloon mortgage A mortgage whose amortization schedule will not extinguish
the debt by the end of the mortgage term, leaving a large payment (called balloon
payment) of the remaining principal balance to be paid at that time.
baloney Foolish or exaggerated talk.
The sausage or luncheon meat is bologna.
Baltimore The city in Maryland stands alone in datelines.
Band-Aid A trademark for a type of adhesive bandage.
Bangkok The city in Thailand stands alone in datelines.
Bank of America Corp. Headquarters is in Charlotte, North Carolina.
bankruptcy Federal courts have exclusive jurisdiction over bankruptcy cases and
each of the 94 federal judicial districts handles bankruptcy matters. The primary
purposes of the federal bankruptcy laws are to give honest debtors a fresh start in
life by relieving them of most debts, and to repay creditors in an orderly manner to
the extent debtors have property available for payment. Bankruptcies can be
voluntary or involuntary.
Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code is available to both individual and business
debtors. Its purpose is to achieve a fair distribution to creditors of the debtor’s
available non-exempt property. It provides a fresh financial start for individuals,
although not all debt is wiped away; debts for certain taxes, fraudulently incurred
credit card debt, family support obligations — including child support and alimony

-- 53 of 1028 --

— and most student loans must still be repaid. The bankruptcy law that took effect
in October 2005 limits Chapter 7 as an option for many Americans: Those deemed
by a “means test” to have at least $100 a month left over after paying certain debts
and expenses must file a five-year repayment plan under the more restrictive
Chapter 13 instead. When a company files for Chapter 7, it usually leads to
liquidation. But a company in Chapter 7 proceedings can continue to operate under
the direction of a court trustee until the matter is settled, and if it can settle with
creditors in the interim, it may not have to be liquidated.
Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code is available for both business and consumer
debtors. Its purpose is to rehabilitate a business as a going concern or reorganize
an individual’s finances through a court-approved reorganization plan. When
referring to such a filing, say the company is seeking Chapter 11 protection. This
action frees a company from the threat of creditors’ lawsuits while it reorganizes
its finances. The debtor’s reorganization plan must be accepted by a majority of its
creditors. Unless the court rules otherwise, the debtor remains in control of the
business and its assets.
Chapter 12 of the Bankruptcy Code is designed to give special debt relief to a
family farmer with regular income from farming.
Chapter 13 of the Bankruptcy Code is likely to be required for an increasing
percentage of individuals seeking to wipe the slate clean. Those deemed by a
“means test” to have at least $100 a month left over after paying certain debts and
expenses will have to file a five-year repayment plan under Chapter 13 allowing
unsecured creditors to recover part or all of what they are owed.
Chapter 15 was added to the Bankruptcy Code in 2005 and covers U.S. filings
that are secondary to bankruptcy cases filed overseas. Courts can authorize trustees
to act in a foreign country on behalf of a bankruptcy estate in a Chapter 15
proceeding. It represents the U.S. adoption of a model law on cross-border
bankruptcy developed by the United Nations.
barbiturate
barrel A standard barrel in U.S. measure contains 31.5 gallons.
A standard barrel in British and Canadian measure contains 36 imperial
gallons.
In international dealings with crude oil, a standard barrel contains 42 U.S.
gallons or 35 imperial gallons.
See the oil entry for guidelines on computing the volume and weight of
petroleum products.
barrel, barreled, barreling

-- 54 of 1028 --

barrister See lawyer.
barroom
BASE jumping Acceptable on first reference for the extreme sport, but explain
later in the story. BASE is an acronym for building, antenna, span (such as a
bridge) and earth (such as a cliff).
basis point One one-hundredth of one percentage point. Changes in interest rates
are measured in basis points. If the Federal Reserve’s target rate was 2% and it
was cut by 50 basis points, the new rate would be 1.5%.
battalion Capitalize when used with a figure to form a name: the 3rd Battalion,
the 10th Battalion.
battlefield Also: battlefront, battleground, battleship. But battle station.
battleground states States where candidates from both major political parties
have a reasonable chance for victory in a statewide race or presidential vote.
bay Capitalize as an integral part of a proper name: Hudson Bay, San Francisco
Bay.
Capitalize also San Francisco Bay Area or the Bay Area as the popular name
for the nine-county region that has San Francisco as its focal point.
B.C. Acceptable in all references to a calendar year in the period before Christ.
Because the full phrase would be in the year 43 before Christ, the abbreviation
B.C. is placed after the figure for the year: 43 B.C.
See A.D.
bear market A period of generally declining stock prices over a prolonged
period, generally defined as a 20% or larger decline in broad stock indexes such as
the S&P 500.
bearer bond A bond for which the owner’s name is not registered on the books
of the issuing company. Interest and principal is thus payable to the bondholder.

-- 55 of 1028 --

bearer stock Stock certificates that are not registered in any name. They are
negotiable without endorsement and transferable by delivery.
because, since Use because to denote a specific cause-effect relationship: He
went because he was told.
Since is acceptable in a causal sense when the first event in a sequence led
logically to the second but was not its direct cause: They went to the game, since
they had been given the tickets.
bed-and-breakfast B&B is acceptable on second reference.
bedbug
before Christ See B.C.
Beijing The city in China stands alone in datelines.
Beirut The city in Lebanon stands alone in datelines.
bellwether
benefit, benefited, benefiting
Ben-Gurion International Airport Located at Lod, Israel, about 10 miles
southeast of Tel Aviv.
See airport.
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Headquarters is in Omaha, Nebraska.
Berlin The city in Germany stands alone in datelines.
Berlin Wall
Bermuda collar, Bermuda grass, Bermuda shorts
beside, besides Beside means at the side of.
Besides means in addition to.

-- 56 of 1028 --

bestseller, bestselling No hyphen.
betting odds Use figures and a hyphen: The odds were 5-4, he won despite 3-2
odds against him. See numerals.
bettor A person who bets.
between See among, between.
bi- The rules in prefixes apply, but in general, no hyphen. Some examples:
bifocal
bilateral
bilingual
bimonthly
bipartisan
biannual, biennial Biannual means twice a year and is a synonym for the word
semiannual.
Biennial means every two years.
Bible Capitalize, without quotation marks, when referring to the Scriptures in the
Old Testament or the New Testament. Capitalize also related terms such as the
Gospels, Gospel of St. Mark, the Scriptures, the Holy Scriptures.
Lowercase biblical in all uses.
Lowercase bible as a nonreligious term: My dictionary is my bible.
Do not abbreviate individual books of the Bible.
Old Testament is a Christian designation; Hebrew Bible or Jewish Bible is the
appropriate term for stories dealing with Judaism alone.
The standard names and order of Old Testament books as they appear in
Protestant Bibles are: Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy,
Joshua, Judges, Ruth, 1 Samuel, 2 Samuel, 1 Kings, 2 Kings, 1 Chronicles, 2
Chronicles, Ezra, Nehemiah, Esther, Job, Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Song of
Solomon, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Lamentations, Ezekiel, Daniel, Hosea, Joel, Amos,
Obadiah, Jonah, Micah, Nahum, Habakkuk, Zephaniah, Haggai, Zechariah,
Malachi.
Jewish Bibles contain the same 39 books, in different order. Roman Catholic
Bibles follow a different order, usually use some different names and include the
seven Deuterocanonical books (called the Apocrypha by Protestants): Tobit,
Judith, 1 Maccabees, 2 Maccabees, Wisdom, Sirach, Baruch.

-- 57 of 1028 --

The books of the New Testament, in order: Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts,
Romans, 1 Corinthians, 2 Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians,
Colossians, 1 Thessalonians, 2 Thessalonians, 1 Timothy, 2 Timothy, Titus,
Philemon, Hebrews, James, 1 Peter, 2 Peter, 1 John, 2 John, 3 John, Jude,
Revelation.
Citation listing the number of chapter and verse(s) use this form: Matthew
3:16, Luke 21:1-13, 1 Peter 2:1.
Big Board Acceptable on second reference for the New York Stock Exchange.
big brother One’s older brother is a big brother. Big Brother (capitalized) means
under the watchful eye of big government, from George Orwell’s “1984.”
Capitalize also in reference to members of Big Brothers Big Sisters of America
Inc. The organization has headquarters in Philadelphia.
Big Three automakers Do not use that term, or Detroit Three, for Detroit
automakers General Motors, Ford and Fiat Chrysler.
billion A thousand million.
For forms, see millions, billions.
Bill of Rights The first 10 amendments to the Constitution. See Constitution.
bimonthly Means every other month. Semimonthly means twice a month.
Bing A web search engine owned by Microsoft Corp.
bin Laden, Osama Use bin Laden on all second and later references except at
the start of a sentence. It is the family preference for the last name, which is an
exception to the general rule on Arabic names. He founded al-Qaida and was
killed by U.S. forces in Pakistan in May 2011.
bioterrorism
biracial, multiracial See race-related coverage.
bird flu Preferred term for avian influenza, viruses that mostly infect poultry and
other birds. Several types are known to infect humans and the deadliest form so far

-- 58 of 1028 --

appears to be H5N1. Other strains that have infected people include H7N9, H9N2
and H6N1. The viruses mainly infect people who have direct contact with sick
birds but human-to-human transmission occasionally occurs.
birthday Capitalize as part of the name for a holiday: Washington’s Birthday.
Lowercase in other uses.
bisexual Describes people attracted to more than one gender. Some people prefer
pansexual, which describes people attracted to others regardless of their gender.
See LGBT, LGBTQ; gender.
bit Acceptable in all references as an abbreviation for binary digit. Actual data
takes the form of electrical impulses. These can be thought of as either on or off or
1 and 0. The pulses are bits.
bitcoin A digital currency created and exchanged independent of banks or
governments. Bitcoin is a form of cryptocurrency and should not be confused with
other systems, such as Dogecoin and Ethereum. As with other cryptocurrencies,
bitcoins do not exist as physical bills or coins. Rather, they exist as lines of
computer code that are digitally signed each time they travel from one owner to
the next. Bitcoins are typically stored in virtual wallets, including online services
that resemble bank accounts.
Capitalize when referring to Bitcoin as a system, but lowercase when referring
to its use as a form of payment. The government wants to regulate Bitcoin. He
bought a vacuum cleaner online using bitcoins.
Bitcoins can be bought and sold on exchanges with U.S. dollars and other
traditional currencies. Given the speculative nature of bitcoins, some investors
have traded in them the way they would in the stock market. Some businesses
have jumped on the Bitcoin bandwagon. Overstock.com accepts payments in
bitcoins, for example. But most individuals and businesses won’t accept such
currencies for payments.
Records are kept through ledgers known as blockchain. In essence, a group of
people called miners lend their computing power to verify other users’
transactions, so that the same bitcoin isn’t spent twice. They are given new
bitcoins as rewards.
Transactions typically are completed anonymously, making the currency
popular among people who want to conceal their financial activity. However,
investigators may still be able to tie transactions to a real person when bitcoins are
converted into a traditional currency for spending elsewhere.

-- 59 of 1028 --

The system was designed with a finite supply of bitcoins, with about 17 million
minted so far and another 4 million to come. The rate of minting slows down over
time, such that the final bitcoin isn’t expected for another century.
Bitcoin was launched in 2009 by a person or group of people operating under
the name Satoshi Nakamoto, and was then adopted by a small clutch of
enthusiasts. Nakamoto dropped off the map as Bitcoin began to attract widespread
attention.
See blockchain; cryptocurrency.
biweekly Means every other week. Semiweekly means twice a week.
bizarre Unusual. A fair is a bazaar.
black See race-related coverage.
BlackBerry, BlackBerrys A brand of smartphone manufactured by
BlackBerry Ltd.
blackout, brownout A blackout is a total power failure over a large area or the
concealing of lights that might be visible to enemy raiders.
The term rolling blackout is used by electric companies to describe a situation
in which electric power to some sections temporarily is cut off on a rotating basis
to assure that voltage will meet minimum standards in other sections.
A brownout is a small, temporary voltage reduction, usually from 2% to 8%,
implemented to conserve electric power.
blastoff (n. and adj.) blast off (v.)
blind See disabled, handicapped.
blizzard See weather terms.
bloc, block A bloc is a coalition of people, groups or nations with the same
purpose or goal.
Block has more than a dozen definitions, but a political alliance is not one of
them.

-- 60 of 1028 --

