

-- 1 of 360 --



-- 2 of 360 --

CONTENTS
Cover
Praise for Everybody Writes
Title Page
Copyright
Dedication
Foreword
Acknowledgments
Introduction
Part I: Writing Rules: How to Write Better (and How to Hate Writing Less)
Chapter 1: Everybody Writes
Chapter 2: Writing Is a Habit, Not an Art
Chapter 3: Shed High School Rules
Chapter 4: Regard Publishing as a Privilege
Chapter 5: Place the Most Important Words (and Ideas) at the Beginning of Each Sentence
Chapter 6: Follow a Writing GPS
Chapter 7: The More the Think, the Easier the Ink
Chapter 8: Organize. Relax, You've Got This
Chapter 9: Embrace The Ugly First Draft
Chapter 10: Swap Places with Your Reader
Chapter 11: Humor Comes on the Rewrite
Chapter 12: Develop Pathological Empathy
Chapter 13: ‘Cross Out the Wrong Words’
Chapter 14: Start with Dear Mom . . .
Chapter 15: If You Take a Running Start, Cover Your Tracks
Chapter 16: Notice Where Words Appear in Relation to Others around Them
Chapter 17: ‘A Good Lede Invites You to the Party and a Good Kicker Makes You Wish You Could Stay
Longer’
Chapter 18: Show, Don't Tell
Chapter 19: Use Familiar Yet Surprising Analogies
Chapter 20: Approach Writing Like Teaching
Chapter 21: Keep It Simple—but Not Simplistic
Chapter 22: Find a Writing Buddy
Chapter 23: Avoid Writing by Committee
Chapter 24: Hire a Great Editor
Chapter 25: Be Rabid about Readability
Chapter 26: End on an I-Can't-Wait-to-Get-Back-to-It Note
Chapter 27: Set a Goal Based on Word Count (Not Time)
Chapter 28: Deadlines Are the WD-40 of Writing
Part II: Writing Rules: Grammar and Usage
Chapter 29: Use Real Words
Chapter 30: Avoid Frankenwords, Obese Words, and Words Pretending to Be Something They're Not
Chapter 31: Don't Use Weblish (Words You Wouldn't Whisper to Your Sweetheart in the Dark)

-- 3 of 360 --

Chapter 32: Know the Difference between Active and Passive Voice
Chapter 33: Ditch Weakling Verbs
Chapter 34: Ditch Adverbs, Except When They Adjust the Meaning
Chapter 35: Use Clichés Only Once in a Blue Moon
Chapter 36: Avoid These Mistakes Marketers Make
Chapter 37: Break Some Grammar Rules (At Least These Five)
Chapter 38: Learn Words You're Probably Misusing or Confusing with Other Words
Similar or Seemingly Interchangeable Words
Usage Confusion
Chapter 39: Scuse Me While I Kiss This Guy
Chapter 40: Limit Moralizing
Part III: Story Rules
Chapter 41: Tell How You'll Change the World
Chapter 42: Tell the Story Only You Can Tell
Chapter 43: Voice and Tone
Chapter 44: Look to Analogy instead of Example
Part IV: Publishing Rules
Chapter 45: Wait. What's Brand Journalism?
But Is It Really Journalism?
How Brand Journalism Works
Chapter 46: Tell the Truth
Chapter 47: See Content Moments Everywhere
Chapter 48: Post News That's Really News
Chapter 49: Biased and Balanced
Chapter 50: Nonobvious Interview Tips
Chapter 51: Fact-Check
Chapter 52: Approach Content with ‘Mind Like Water’
Chapter 53: Seek Out the Best Sources
Chapter 54: Be Aware of Hidden Agendas
Chapter 55: Cite as You Write
Chapter 56: Curate Ethically
Chapter 57: Seek Permission, Not Forgiveness
Chapter 58: Understand the Basics of Copyright, Fair Use, and For Attribution
Can I Just Link?
What about Images?
How about Logos and Screenshots?
One Final Point
Chapter 59: Ground Content in Data
Part V: 13 Things Marketers Write
Chapter 60: The Ideal Length for Blog Posts, Podcast, Facebook Posts, Tweets, and Other Marketing
Content
How Long Should a Blog Post Be?
Chapter 61: Writing for Twitter

-- 4 of 360 --

Chapter 62: Writing with Hashtags
Chapter 63: Writing Social Media with Humor
Chapter 64: Writing for Facebook
Chapter 65: Writing for LinkedIn
Chapter 66: Writing Your LinkedIn Profile
Chapter 67: Writing for Email
Chapter 68: Writing Landing Pages
Chapter 69: Writing Headlines
Chapter 70: Writing a Home Page
Chapter 71: Writing the About Us Page
Chapter 72: Writing Infographics That Won't Make People Mock Infographics
Chapter 73: Writing Better Blog Posts
Chapter 74: Writing Annual Reports (or Annual Wrap-Ups)
Part VI: Content Tools
Research and Knowledge Management Tools
Writing Tools
Productivity Tools
Editing Tools
A Few Great Style Guides
Non-Text Writing Tools
Blog Idea Generators
Google Authorship
Image Sources (Or, Stock That Doesn't Stink)
Acknowledgments for Tools
Epilogue
Index
End User License Agreement

-- 5 of 360 --



-- 6 of 360 --

Praise for Everybody Writes
“Where was this book when I first started writing? Too many people think writing is easy: just put your
thoughts down. Nope. Writing is much more dynamic in a world where content is everything and everywhere. In
Everybody Writes, Ann Handley does the impossible: she teaches you (and me) how to not only tell better
stories, but how to get those stories to connect with an audience. As usual, Handley does what she does best:
she overdelivers. If you create content, buy this. If you run a team that creates content, buy everyone a copy.
This is one of those books that will always sit within arm's reach of anyone who must come up with ideas.”
—Mitch Joel
President, Twist Image;
Author of Six Pixels of Separation and CTRL ALT Delete
“This book provides marketers from all functions with a deeper understanding of this new era of storytelling
and content, and it empowers them to contribute as a creative.”
—Tim Washer
Senior Marketing Manager, Cisco
“Many people talk about the need to create great content, and to tell better stories in order to win new business
in this social and digital age. So after cowriting the definitive Content Rules, Ann Handley is back to help us all
understand how to get it done. Ann shatters the myth that writing is only for trained journalists, and provides
amazingly insightful tips on how everyone can tell great stories.”
—Michael Brenner
Head of Strategy, Newscred
“Handley gets to the core of why most content doesn't work. More important, she offers real-world, pragmatic
advice for fixing it. Everyone who creates content for the Web—text, audio, or video—should read this book.”
—Sonia Simone
Chief Content Officer, Copyblogger Media
“In our newly connected world, who would have thought that writing skills would be critical to an individual's
future success? Everybody Writes gives you all the tools you need to make writing a core part of your life (and it
needs to be). Plus, Ann's stories are incredibly engaging, she makes complex themes simple to understand, and
she's just one really nice person (if you needed another reason).”
—Joe Pulizzi
Founder, Content Marketing Institute;
Author of Epic Content Marketing
“Great content marketing can't happen without great writing. But way too many marketing teams settle for
‘good enough.’ In this terrific book, Ann Handley shows why that's a fatal mistake and how to avoid making it. A
fun, fast read that makes you want to run to your keyboard and tap out a masterpiece. But it's not just for
writers, it's for anyone who commissions, edits, or works with writers.”
—Doug Kessler
Cofounder and Creative Director, Velocity UK
“Everybody Writes is your guide to creating content you can be proud of and that customers will love you for.
No one is going to win the content game with average, that's why Everybody Writes is a must-have guide for
anyone that creates content.”
—Lee Odden
CEO, Top Rank Marketing;
Author of Optimize
“Writing is one of the most important skills in marketing today. We all nod along while secretly wondering,
‘How DO we get better at writing?’
Everybody Writes addresses this in an accessible way that no other book has. As always, Ann does this with
equal parts humor and heart. You'll laugh as you learn.”

-- 7 of 360 --

—Nick Westergaard
Chief Brand Strategist, Brand Driven Digital
“Writing is not an easy task. Writing a book about writing is near impossible, but Ann has done it as only she
can. Filled with valuable information, techniques, examples, and smiles—this is the book for anyone who wants
their words to have more success.”
—C. C. Chapman
Author and storyteller
“Throw the others away because this is the only guide you need to elevate your content to the level of
awesomeness! With wisdom and an infective wittiness, Ann shows you how to take your writing from awkward
or awful to electric or elegant. She's your favorite teacher, cracking you up while her tough love gets you to do
the work to improve. Even though I've written 10 books, I still learned a great deal in these pages and now I'm
eager to flex my newfound content creation muscles.”
—David Meerman Scott
Best-selling author of The New Rules of Marketing and PR
“The alternate click-bait title of Ann's great new book could have been 73 Ways to Improve Your Writing and
Conquer the World!…and it would have been an understatement. We're all publishers now, and the better
writers connect, persuade, and win. Be one of them with this book.”
—Brian Clark
Founder and CEO, Copyblogger Media
“All your shiny new channels, properties, and platforms are a waste of space without smart, useful content. Ann
Handley's new book helps make every bit of content count—for your customers and your bottom line.”
—Kristina Halvorson
President, Brain Traffic
“I just glanced at the table of contents and I'm already a better writer. Ann Handley might just single-handedly
save the world from content mediocrity. Really, really ridiculously good-looking content just got an owner's
manual.”
—Jason Miller
Senior Content Marketing Manager, LinkedIn
“Let's face it, writing is not optional for today's marketer. Ann's witty take on what works and what doesn't will
help you master business writing and—more importantly—have fun while you're doing it!”
—Ardath Albee
B2B Marketing Strategist;
Author, eMarketing Strategies for the Complex Sale and Digital Relevance (coming in 2015)
“Useful to the extreme, Everybody Writes is the first must-read book on the subject since Stephen King's On
Writing. Bursting with ways to improve your short and long-form content, it's too good to be skimmed. This
book should be included with every keyboard sold, like a combo pack of communication clarity. You'll be a
better writer by page 15. By the end of this book, you're thinking about giving Steinbeck a run for his money. I
passionately recommend Everybody Writes.”
—Jay Baer
President, Convince & Convert;Author, Youtility
“Finally, a sensible writing guide for a digital age! Everybody Writes is a unique blend of how-to-write rules and
what-to-write revelations. Whether you are overhauling your everyday communication or sitting down to write a
book, Ann Handley's irreverent style and inspirational wisdom will transform the way you write. Move over
Strunk & White, Everybody Writes is the creative resource for a new generation.”
—Andrew M. Davis
Author, Brandscaping

-- 8 of 360 --



-- 9 of 360 --

Everybody Writes

-- 10 of 360 --

Your Go-To Guide to Creating Ridiculously Good Content
Ann Handley

-- 11 of 360 --

Cover image: Evan WH Price (www.evanwhprice.com)
Cover design: Wiley
Copyright © 2014 by Ann Handley. All rights reserved
Portions of Part 5: 13 Things Marketers Write contain excerpts of content authored by Ann Handley and originally published in Entrepreneur®
magazine and are being reproduced with permission of Entrepreneur Media, Inc. ©2013-2014 by Entrepreneur Media, Inc. All rights reserved.
Published by John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Hoboken, New Jersey.
Published simultaneously in Canada.
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical,
photocopying, recording, scanning, or otherwise, except as permitted under Section 107 or 108 of the 1976 United States Copyright Act, without either
the prior written permission of the Publisher, or authorization through payment of the appropriate per-copy fee to the Copyright Clearance Center, 222
Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA 01923, (978) 750-8400, fax (978) 646-8600, or on the Web at www.copyright.com. Requests to the Publisher for
permission should be addressed to the Permissions Department, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 111 River Street, Hoboken, NJ 07030, (201) 748-6011, fax
(201) 748-6008, or online at www.wiley.com/go/permissions.
Limit of Liability/Disclaimer of Warranty: While the publisher and author have used their best efforts in preparing this book, they make no
representations or warranties with respect to the accuracy or completeness of the contents of this book and specifically disclaim any implied warranties
of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. No warranty may be created or extended by sales representatives or written sales materials. The
advice and strategies contained herein may not be suitable for your situation. Y ou should consult with a professional where appropriate. Neither the
publisher nor the author shall be liable for damages arising herefrom.
For general information about our other products and services, please contact our Customer Care Department within the United States at (800) 762-
2974, outside the United States at (317) 572-3993 or fax (317) 572-4002.
Wiley publishes in a variety of print and electronic formats and by print-on-demand. Some material included with standard print versions of this book
may not be included in e-books or in print-on-demand. If this book refers to media such as a CD or DVD that is not included in the version you
purchased, you may download this material at http://booksupport.wiley.com. For more information about Wiley products, visit www.wiley.com.
ISBN: 978-1-118-90555-5 (cloth)
ISBN: 978-1-118-90559-3 (ebk)
ISBN: 978-1-118-90561-6 (ebk)

-- 12 of 360 --



-- 13 of 360 --

Dedication
To Evan, who always trusts his cape.
And to Caroline, who does things that scare her.

-- 14 of 360 --



-- 15 of 360 --

Foreword
I came to writing reluctantly. My dirty little secret is that I got a D in college English.
I know, I know…so why am I writing a foreword for a book about writing? Because if I can learn to write well, so
can you! And as the author of three best-selling books about communicating, I know how powerful great
communication can be.
And anyway, do you really have a choice? Shouldn't you be writing better than you probably do now? There is a
lot of barfy marketing content out there. It might be accurate, but it's often not interesting.
When I was talked into writing my first book, I set two objectives for myself:
1. To first believe I could do it, and…
2. To devour as many books about writing as possible.
That was in 2008. Man, I wish this book was around then.
This book inspires you to become a stronger writer. And it does so with style. In typical Handley fashion, every
page will make you laugh, or at least smile. Ann is one of very few writers who can make me feel a cocktail of
emotions in a single paragraph.
You should devour this book if you're a communicator, regardless of your title, position, years of experience, or
job description. Because everybody writes.
If Strunk and White's The Elements of Style and Stephen King's On Writing had a baby, this would be it.
Be prepared to be delighted and to write better!
—Nancy Duarte
Owner, Duarte Design;
Author of Slide:ology and Resonate
Harvard Business Review Guide to Persuasive Presentations
Mountain View, CA

-- 16 of 360 --



-- 17 of 360 --

Acknowledgments
Ah. So I see you, too, are one of those people who reads acknowledgments. Welcome, friend. You and I have a
lot in common.
Writing a book is like birthing a Volkswagen. The process is about as pretty as you'd imagine that to be: it's long
and arduous and you sweat a lot, and most of the work is done while crying.
My name might be on this book, but the following people helped—some of them considerably. You might call
them midwives of sorts. But that might be taking the analogy a step too far.
Most special thanks to…
Kristina Halvorson, who gave me the title of this book and in exchange asks merely for all my love, money, and
constant acknowledgment of her genius, which I gladly confer. With interest.
Vahe Habeshian, who put almost as much heart into this as I did. He's the world's best editor, among other
things. And no, you cannot have his phone number.
My dear friend Nancy Duarte, for immediately saying yes to writing the foreword, which added a necessary,
persistent pressure on me to get off the couch and finish this beast so she had something to actually write a
foreword to.
Artist and number-one-son Evan W. H. Price, for the cover and interior illustrations, and also for being exactly
the kind of person I could ever want him to be.
And also to…
Joe Chernov, for collaborating on an early iteration of Publishing Rules years ago, and for his consistently sound
advice, smart sensibilities, and his ability to write circles around me.
Doug Kessler, for being an early reader of The Ugly First Draft—and still managing to say nice things about it.
Also for his heart, soul, wisdom, and (especially) his humor.
Dane Sanders, who deserves top seeding in the World Cup of Encouraging Friends Playoffs. (If that's not a
tournament, it should be.)
Andrew Davis, for his cheering and random emails that prodded me along when he probably didn't realize I
needed it the most.
Lee Odden, for his consistent and generous support, smarts, and friendship.
Tim Washer, for being a great friend, conspirator, and collaborator for what seems like forever, or at least 20
years.
Kerry O'Shea Gorgone, for research help, legal expertise, high jinks, and shenanigans.
David Meerman Scott, for talking me through the framework of this book in a way that suddenly made it seem
doable—instead of amorphous and hopeless and terrible. (This is also a good time to point out that he's done
this for the second time in as many books.)
Jess Ostroff, for whatever the word is that means things would literally fall apart without your expertise,
supreme organization, and help with all the things.
Wiley's Shannon Vargo, Peter Knox, and Elizabeth Gildea, who manage to possess equal measures of patience
and impatience, and who also seem to have an uncanny sixth sense of which to apply when.
To Entrepreneur magazine, for permission to take bits and pieces of some of the material I wrote for my
monthly column and reshape it here.
To my MarketingProfs family: It seems weird to refer to people I work with as a “family.” But whatever. As my
daughter Caroline tells me, “You be you, Mom. You be you.”
To Facebook and Twitter, for making the writing of this book at least twice as long as it might have been
otherwise.
And to the following for sharing their feedback and ideas generously and without expectation:

-- 18 of 360 --

Jesse Noyes, Heidi Cohen, Jonathon Colman, Jason Miller, John Simmons, Richard Pelletier, Ahava Leibtag,
Bernadette Jiwa, Andy Crestodina, Joe Pulizzi, Dan Lyons, Jay Baer, Ardath Albee, Sonia Simone, Brian Clark,
Mitch Joel, Michael Brenner, Nick Westergaard, Paul Gillin, David B. Thomas, Corey O'Loughlin, Jill Foster, and
the unparalleled C. C. Chapman.
Finally, is it pretentious to thank E. B. White?
The Elements of Style was a talisman to me when I was a college student learning to be a better writer; I clung to
it like an infant lab monkey clings to its wire-frame mother, desperate to survive. (I still reread it every year or
so.) White's quote in the Epilogue of Everybody Writes reminds me daily that anyone who waits for the perfect
conditions to write won't ever actually create much of anything.
So, thanking a great writer I never met might indeed be pretentious. But some things just have to be said.

-- 19 of 360 --



-- 20 of 360 --

Introduction
Last Tuesday, for the first time in my life, I did a push-up. That wouldn't be remarkable for most of you,
probably. It might even seem pathetic to most of you. But for me it was an occasion to celebrate, because it
capped five months of hard work that followed a lifetime of resolutely thinking of myself as spectacularly
incapable.
I hail from a stunningly unathletic family: most of us are more Eeyore than Seabiscuit; we are the ones picked
last for the team, the ones who are afraid of the ball. And I was (quite literally) a 100-pound weakling. So the
idea of my being capable of a push-up (or 5, or 10, or—maybe, eventually—50 or more!) seemed as improbable
as my writing this in Russian.
Why am I telling you about that pathetic-but-epic push-up…in a book about writing and content creation and
publishing?
Because learning to craft better content can involve nothing more than developing some necessary muscles.
Right now you might not consider yourself much of a writer, or much of a content creator, just as I never
considered myself someone who could drop and pump out a set of push-ups.
In our world, many hold a notion that the ability to write, or write well, is a gift bestowed on a chosen few.
Writing well is considered a kind of art, linked murkily to muse and mysticism. That leaves us thinking there are
two kinds of people: the writing haves—and the hapless, for whom writing well is a hopeless struggle, like trying
to carve marble with a butter knife.
But I don't believe that, and neither should you. The truth is this: writing well is part habit, part knowledge of
some fundamental rules, and part giving a damn. We are all capable of producing good writing. Or, at least,
better writing. As David Carr of the New York Times says, “Writing is less about beckoning the muse than
hanging in until the typing becomes writing.”
So the two kinds of people are not the haves and the hapless. Instead, they are those who think they can write,
and those who think they can't. (And, too often, both are wrong!)
In reality, most of us fall somewhere in the middle, capable of shedding mediocre writing to reveal something
more inspired and reader-centric. We just need to train the necessary muscles.

-- 21 of 360 --

But I'm Not a Writer
If you have a website, you are a publisher. If you are on social media, you are in marketing. And that means we
are all writers.
Yeah, but who cares about writing anymore? In a time-challenged world dominated by short and snappy, by
click-bait headlines and Twitter streams and Instagram feeds and gifs and video and Snapchat and YOLO and
LOL and #tbt…does the idea of focusing on writing seem pedantic or ordinary?
And maybe a little useless, considering that an article (or so-called listicle) titled “13 Potatoes That Look Like
Channing Tatum” on BuzzFeed garners 2,000 tweets and 14,000 shares on Facebook?1
Actually, writing matters more now, not less. In an online world, our online words are our emissaries; they tell
the world who we are, as user experience expert Beth Dunn puts it.2
Our writing can make us look smart or it can make us look stupid. It can make us seem fun, or warm, or
competent, or trustworthy. But it can also make us seem humdrum or discombobulated or flat-out boring.
That means you've got to choose words well, and write with economy and style and honest empathy for your
reader. And it means you put a new value on an often-overlooked skill in content marketing: how to write, and
how to tell a true story really, really well. That's true whether you're writing a listicle or the words on a
SlideShare deck or the words I'm using right here, right now.…
And so being able to communicate well in writing isn't just nice; it's a necessity. And it's also the oft-overlooked
cornerstone of nearly all content marketing.

-- 22 of 360 --

What Is Content?
So, yeah, what is content?
Content isn't limited to the text on our Web pages or product pages or blogs or e-mail newsletters. It's broader
than the things we think of as marketing. Content is essentially everything your customer or prospect touches
or interacts with—including your own online properties and Web pages and the experiences they offer, but also
everything on any social channel (like Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, YouTube, and so on).
Content is the entire user experience, says Kristina Halvorson, CEO of content strategy firm Brain Traffic and
well-known speaker and author. Think of your content, then, as any medium through which you communicate
with the people who might use your products or services.
Or, to paraphrase Mufasa the Lion King as he and his son Simba survey their kingdom at Pride Rock:
“Everything the light touches is content.”
I'm kidding. Of course Mufasa wasn't talking about content in the original quote, which is actually “Everything
the light touches is our kingdom.” But the concept loosely translates online as Everything Is Content.
And very often the core of that content—that user experience—is writing. Sometimes it's literally the experience
—in the case of a blog post, e-book, white paper, Twitter post, or website text. And sometimes it's the basis of a
visual experience—like that video or that SlideShare or PowerPoint presentation that began its life as a script, or
that infographic that likely knits together data and text.
Yet in this content-driven environment, businesses often neglect or overlook words—much to their own
detriment. Think of it this way: If a visitor came to your website without its branding in place (logo, tagline, and
so on), would he or she recognize it as yours? If you stripped your branding from all your properties and lined
up your words alongside a competitor's, would you recognize yourself? Would you stand out?
Words are indeed our emissaries and ambassadors, carrying important messages for us. “Words are a proxy…a
stand-in for the things that we as people and we as companies want to convey to the world,” Beth Dunn says.
So the question becomes: Are you telling your story from your unique perspective, with a voice and style that's
clearly all you?
For businesses, good writing isn't merely any tool. It's the power tool they should be able to wield expertly, just
as every respectable building contractor can use the Skilsaw he keeps in his truck.
Good writing is…
Often the foundation of good content that gets noticed, no matter what form that content ultimately takes.
A mirror of good, clear, thinking that's an antidote to the complexity that can sometimes characterize our
business world. Amazon's Jeff Bezos reportedly relies on writing to hold effective meetings, requiring senior
executives to read six-page narrative memos prior to in-person meetings, according to Janet Choi of
iDoneThis, writing in Fast Company.3
Choi cites a 2012 interview with Charlie Rose in which Bezos says: “When you have to write your ideas out
in complete sentences and complete paragraphs, it forces a deeper clarity of thinking.”4 Choi adds: “Writing
with a narrative structure rather than relying on messaging by numbers or bullet points also pushes people
to think through problems within a fuller context.”
The key to a customer-centric, intuitive, empathic point of view. “Good writing…is a matter of developing
the skills of intuitive psychology that are so important in every other aspect of social life: getting inside the
heads of other people so that you can respect their needs and their wants,” writes psychologist Steven Pinker
in a Harvard publication.5 (Thanks to Janet Choi for that link, too.)
Words matter. Your words (what you say) and style (how you say it) are your most cherished (and, yet,
undervalued) assets.

-- 23 of 360 --

Why We Need to Wage a War on Content Mediocrity (Or, Why This Book?)
Why? Three reasons…
1. We have become a planet of publishers. Content Rules, my first book (with C. C. Chapman), helped to ignite
content-centric marketing, spreading the message of content as a cornerstone of marketing and championing
its power to drive real business value. Content Rules became the best-selling book on content marketing, and
(thus far) has been translated into nine languages.
In the four years since that book's publication, an overwhelming number of businesses have adopted a
content-centric marketing mind-set: 93 percent of business-to-business companies (and 90 percent of
business-to-consumer companies) say they are using content in their marketing mix, according to the 2014
annual survey produced by MarketingProfs and the Content Marketing Institute.6
Best-in-class marketers have set up the necessary structures and processes to consistently produce content.
They've linked those efforts with strategic goals. They're upping content budgets. They're applying a variety
of tactics—blogs, videos, webcasts, podcasts, and the like—12 tactics on average for B2B companies, 13 for
B2C. They're using, on average, six social media platforms.
That's a lot of bustle over four years, isn't it?
Still, almost half of those marketers we surveyed (51 percent of B2C companies, and 47 percent of B2B
companies) still struggle with how to create the kind of content that engages. At a fundamental level, we're
all still struggling with how to create the kind of content that attracts customers.
Ours is a world where technology and social media have given us access and power: every one of us now has
the awesome opportunity to own our own online publishing platforms—websites, blogs, email newsletters,
Facebook pages, Twitter streams, and so on.
I don't use the phrase awesome opportunity lightly. The opportunity to change how we communicate with
the people we are trying to reach, and what we communicate, is tremendous—yet we aren't taking full
advantage of it.
Said another way: we are a planet of publishers, but many of us are littering the landscape with content
crap, squandering the whopping opportunity we have to communicate directly with those we are trying to
reach.
The challenge has shifted: we now grok the notion of content as a cornerstone of an online presence. Google
and other search engines have made it clear that they'll love up the good stuff more than the regurgitated
pabulum. Now let's focus on creating relevant, quality content experiences that our customers and
prospects can trust.
We've embraced the idea of being publishers; the challenge that remains is the doing—the writing and
publishing itself.
2. Brevity and clarity matter more than ever. Your awesome opportunity is also your competitor's awesome
opportunity. It's also your colleague's, your friend's, your rival's, and that of the guy in the next cube who's
neck-and-neck with you for that promotion.
In other words, that opportunity has put new pressure on marketers and layered new requirements onto the
marketing department, because there's a lot of competition clamoring to be heard. That's why it's important
to write clearly and succinctly: to communicate your ideas and thoughts in a way that doesn't meander
maddeningly; to respect the reader; to ensure that any content we produce doesn't come off as indulgent.
I know this will sound harsh, but as someone who's been editing marketers for almost 20 years (first at
ClickZ, and now at MarketingProfs), I assure you…an awful lot of content meandering goes on in articles,
posts, PR pitches, and emails. I'm sorry to tell you so, but I also assure you there's love in my heart as I do.
3. What matters now isn't storytelling; what matters is telling a true story well. Marketing pundits
increasingly talk up the importance of story and storytelling, and even I've crowed here about quality
content.

-- 24 of 360 --

But those words all feel vague and amorphous, don't they? What's quality, exactly? And do we really want to
be storytelling, with all the improvising and embellishing the word implies?
Here's my take, after having been steeped in this new world of content marketing almost since its modern
inception: quality, relevant content is less about storytelling; it's more about telling a true story well. Or, to
paraphrase Jack Kerourac: “It ain't only whatcha write, it's also the way atcha write it.”
In our world, quality content means content that is packed with clear utility and is brimming with
inspiration, and it has relentless empathy for the audience:
Utility means you clearly help your customers do something that matters to them—you help them
shoulder their burdens, you ease their pain, or you help them make a decision.
Inspiration means your content is inspired by data (more on this later) or it's creatively inspired (or
both). It's fresh, different, well-written, well-produced, nicely designed—and it feels like it could come
only from you.
Empathy means you relentlessly focus on your customer. You view the entire world through his or her
eyes—because, remember, everything the light touches is content.
I'm not much of a mathematician, but here's a handy, memorable formula that captures the sweet spot of your
quality content. The multiplication signs are important, because if the value of any one of these things (Utility,
Inspiration, or Empathy) is zero, then the sum of your content is a big fat zero, too. (Thanks to my friend and
marketer Doug Kessler for the multiplication inspiration.):
Utility × Inspiration × Empathy = Quality Content
This is a good time to mention that quality in the context of your business doesn't necessarily mean writing with
all the beauty or gravitas or heft of Hemingway or Michael Chabon or Joan Didion or George R. R. Martin or any
other writer whose work you happen to admire.
Rather, I'm talking about getting to the essence of what makes those writers (or any writer!) great—whether you
write novels or FAQ pages. And the key to that essence is a relentless empathy for your reader or audience.
One of the best, quality bits of content I ever encountered was a neatly designed guide to dishwasher repair I
downloaded from an appliance website, because it delivered exactly what I needed with clear utility, inspiration,
and empathy for the pain of having shards of a drinking glass caught in the drain hose.

-- 25 of 360 --

Still Waiting. I Thought You Said You Were Going to Explain Why This
Book?
Oh, right.
Although many excellent books on writing already exist, I've found that a lot of writing advice is really more
aphorism than true advice. They're entertaining to read and they can be a kind of rallying cry, but they aren't
very how-to or prescriptive. (Which is always my bias. I like how-to advice. I don't know what to do with high-
level, other than to wish it were more how-to.)
Alternatively, much of what passes for writing advice gets too deep in the weeds of writing construction. Great if
you're looking to up your score on the SATs. Not so awesome if you just need some guidance on how not to
sound like a total idiot when you craft this week's customer mailing.
What's harder to find is a book that functions for marketers as part writing and story guide, part instructional
manual on the ground rules of ethical publishing, and part straight talk on some muscle-building writing
processes and habits.
What's also hard to find is a book that distills some helpful ideas about the craft of content simply and (I hope)
memorably, framed for the marketer and businessperson, as opposed to, say, the novelist or essayist or
journalist.
I wrote this book because I couldn't find what I wanted—part writing guide, part handbook on the rules of good
sportsmanship in content marketing, and all-around reliable desk companion for anyone creating or directing
content on behalf of brands.
To that end, this book is separated into six sections; each deals with a different dimension of content:
Part I, How to Write Better (and How to Hate Writing Less)—the latter for the recovering or traumatized
writer—offers some handy scaffolding and blueprints for better thinking and writing.
Part II, Grammar and Usage, discusses the stuff most people consider writing. It gives you some grammar
rules and tools to help you choose better words and craft better sentences and paragraphs…to help you start
flexing your content muscles.
Next come Story Rules (Part III) and Publishing Rules (Part IV). The first provides some guidelines on
elements that will infuse your content with heart and soul and integrity, and layer it with a warm blanket of
trust. There's a lot to learn here from the ground rules of journalism and publishing, so those are covered in
the part that follows.
Next is 13 Things Marketers Write (Part V), which gives you a super tactical look at typical marketing tasks.
And finally, Content Tools (Part VI) gives you a reference list of resources and paraphernalia to help you
produce your best work.
There's also a lot that's not in this book, because it's not meant to be an exhaustive resource for the business of
writing. Rather, it's meant to be your practical go-to guide, offering the most important and useful guideposts on
the path toward better writing.
Content can be complex, but it's inherently easier to use your content as a driver of business when you start
with a quality product, clear thinking, and good writing.
Stephen King calls fear the root of poor writing. But he points out (in his memoir On Writing): “Dumbo got
airborne with the help of a magic feather…Just remember before you do that Dumbo didn't need the feather; the
magic was in him.”
The same is true of you. Of me. Of all of us. Like Dumbo, we just require the will and the courage and the
inspiration and the gumption and the wits to start.
So, really, the question is not: Are you telling your story from your unique perspective, with a style that's
clearly all you?
The real question is Are you ready? Who's all in?

-- 26 of 360 --

Notes
1. Lauren Yapalater, “13 Potatoes That Look Like Channing Tatum,” BuzzFeed, October 24, 2013,
www.buzzfeed.com/lyapalater/potatoes-that-look-like-channing-tatum.
2. Beth Dunn, “How to Be a Writing God,” YouTube video, Inbound Bold Talks (Inbound 2013 conference),
January 8, 2014, www.youtube.com/watch?v=S8Q3vnPM6kk.
3. Janet Choi, “The Simplest Way to Know What Everyone's Doing at Work,” Fast Company, November 21, 2013,
www.fastcompany.com/3021980/dialed/the-simplest-way-to-know-what-everyones-doing-at-work.
4. Jeff Bezos, interview by Charlie Rose, Charlie Rose, PBS, aired November 15, 2012,
www.charlierose.com/watch/60148245.
5. Steven Pinker, “Writing As Psychology,” Exposé (Essays from the Expository Writing Program at Harvard
College), 2006–2007, www.jhcwp.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/Expose06_07.pdf.
6. “B2B Content Marketing 2014: Benchmarks, Budgets, and Trends, North America,” slide presentation,
Content Marketing Institute/MarketingProfs, October 1, 2013, www.slideshare.net/mprofs/b2b-content-
marketing-2014-benchmarks-budgets-and-trendsnorth-america.

-- 27 of 360 --



-- 28 of 360 --

Part I
Writing Rules: How to Write Better (and How to Hate Writing Less)
There is no one way to write—just as there is no one way to parent a child or roast a turkey. But there are
terrible ways to do all three. And with each, you've got to have a basic understanding of the process before you
begin. I'm going to assume you have that—you know enough, for example, to procure an oven and a pan before
you begin to roast anything.
In other words, this book assumes that you are equipped with some very basic tools: a working knowledge of
English (that means basic levels of grammar, spelling, usage, and punctuation). And I mean very basic: if you
recognize that this is a sentence and not, say, a rhinoceros…we're good, and you can safely proceed knowing you
aren't out of your depth. (In Part II, we'll talk about sharpening those tools in your content tool shed.)
It also assumes—or hopes is perhaps the better word—that you come with a bit of gung ho: an eagerness to
become a better writer because you recognize that it matters, and because you've kicked to the curb the dumb
notion that only an anointed few have the chops to be good writers.
Ta-Nehisi Coates, a senior editor at the Atlantic, spent a year teaching writing to MIT students. He later wrote, “I
felt that the rigor of math had better prepared these kids for the rigor of writing. One of my students insisted
that whereas in math you could practice and get better, in writing you either ‘had it’ or you didn't. I told her that
writing was more like math then [sic] she suspected.”1
In other words, good writing can be learned—the way trigonometry or algebra or balancing a balance sheet is a
skill most of us can master. In an essay at the Neiman Journalism Lab, “How I Faced My Fears and Learned to
Be Good at Math,” Matt Waite writes: “The difference between good at math and bad at math is hard work. It's
trying. It's trying hard. It's trying harder than you've ever tried before. That's it.”2
The same is true about writing.
What you will read in this section is everything I know to be most important about writing: everything I have
learned, collected, curated, and discovered over 25 years of writing and editing professionally (and a lifetime of
writing for fun), distilled into the most important perspectives that I think can help all of us up our writing
game.
This would be a good time to thank Neil Patel and Kathryn Aragon, coauthors of The Advanced Guide to Content
Marketing (2013). Their guide helped me to conceptualize how I might present to you what I'd been doing—
without putting much conscious thought into how I was doing it—for those 25 years. If you're looking for a
handy reference for much more than writing, check it out in full at bit.ly/AdvancedGuide.
I hope that the rules in this section will help you to better organize and develop your writing—and to choose
better words, craft better sentences, and consider things like cadence and flow, and many others that I'll stop
specifying right now so you can just get to it…!
If you have never written—if you are an “adult-onset writer” who is perhaps recovering from some trauma that
made you consider yourself an inept writer—this section provides some helpful processes and structures to help
you get started.
If you've been writing for a while, here is some collected wisdom that may help you write better or more
effectively.
And if you are an experienced writer, I hope you rediscover the glee and joy of honing a craft.
One final thing: I've organized this book as a series of so-called rules because I wanted to offer useful and (I

-- 29 of 360 --

hope) memorable how-tos. I also wanted to differentiate these ideas from the general motivational aphorisms
that pass for most writing advice. Part I is a gaggle of helpful how-tos specific to the writing process and
organization of a piece (it's less boring than it sounds), as well as advice for livelier writing. Part II will cover
grammar and usage, framed for a marketing audience.
In any case, these “rules” are intended to be functional tools, not prescriptive rules. So, as we wrote (in a
different context) in Content Rules, any rules here are less hard-and-fast writing rules than they are a handy set
of guidelines. Think of them more as bumpers on a bowling lane that nudge the ball away from the gutter and
greatly increase the odds that the ball you throw will land a strike.
Of course, you can break the rules (or ignore the tools) as you wish. Isn't every rule made to be broken? Doesn't
every rule have an exception? You might be a kind of content MacGyver who wackily crafts beautiful content
out of a metaphorical paper clip and roll of Scotch tape. That's totally great—in fact, I hope you do! But, first, you
have to know what rules to break (or what tools to ignore).

-- 30 of 360 --

Notes
1. Ta-Nehisi Coates, “Notes from the First Year: Some Thoughts on Teaching at MIT,” Atlantic, June 11, 2013,
www.theatlantic.com/national/archive/2013/06/notes-from-the-first-year-some-thoughts-on-teaching-at-
mit/276743.
2. Matt Waite, “Matt Waite: How I Faced My Fears and Learned to Be Good at Math,” Neiman Journalism Lab,
November 13, 2013, www.niemanlab.org/2013/11/matt-waite-how-i-faced-my-fears-and-learned-to-be-good-
at-math.

-- 31 of 360 --



-- 32 of 360 --

1
Everybody Writes
I want to tell you that the key to taking your writing muscles from puny to brawny is to write every day. That
writing is a habit, not an art. It is the former—and I'll talk about that in a minute. But before I do, let's reframe
this business of writing.
As you think of developing a writing habit, realize that you probably already do write every day. You write
emails; you post to Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram; you comment on blogs. Recognize all that posting for what
it is: writing. And reframe it as a legit aspect of your daily workout—in the same way always taking the stairs
becomes, over time, part of a fitness regimen.
I hope you'll consider this first rule a kind of call to arms to improve all of your communications, rather than
just the stuff we traditionally think of as “content.” Embrace the idea (as I said in the Introduction) that your
words are your Web currency: they are a proxy, a stand-in for the important things you want to convey to your
customers, and the world.
I want your readers and followers and audience to enjoy your words more, and I want you to maybe even feel a
little proud of them.
But getting to that point requires—in all of us—a crucial shift: viewing the words we use as an important piece of
who we (and our companies) are online. First, though, we have to overcome what holds us back from being
writers: a combination of fear, lethargy, and a lack of confidence or knowledge (or both).
“If you want to be a writer you must do two things above all others: read a lot and write a lot,” Stephen King
writes in his book On Writing. He is talking to those who want to make their living as he does, writing books.
But, in our world, we're all already writing and reading a lot. Every day.
I am a writer. You are a writer. Everybody writes.

-- 33 of 360 --



-- 34 of 360 --

2
Writing Is a Habit, Not an Art
We're tempted to think that writing is an art, that only an anointed lucky few can do it well. But that's an excuse
—a justification that lets the lazy among us off the hook for being the communication equivalent of a couch
potato: flabby, unmotivated, inarticulate. But the truth is that the key to being a better writer is, essentially, to
be a more productive one. Or more simply, the key to being a better writer is to write.
You'd think that great writers would have special inspiration or contrived stimuli to boost their output—not
unlike what poet, humorist, and educator Taylor Mali hilariously suggested in his deadpan response to a
question about his favorite place to write:
I'd love to say I have handmade Japanese paper and a 200-year-old fountain pen…and every morning,
after making love, for the third time…I go running, for about five miles…if I'm feeling lazy.
[At] the top of our house, there's an old cupola, and I watch the sunrise up there, in the nude, and I write
my poems longhand. I'm right-handed but I force myself to use my left hand, because I find it makes me
more creative. And I write, in Latin, because it forces the brain to work in a new way—backwards, like
Hebrew…
But, really, Mali adds,
I just sit in front of my computer.1
Many of the world's most brilliant writers stressed regular routines and schedules for writing. Maya Angelou,
Ernest Hemingway, Charles Dickens, and Oliver Sacks kept regular hours to cultivate creative rhythms. They
might've had certain quirks (it's true that Hemingway wrote standing up, and Maya Angelou kept a room in a
budget hotel to escape the distractions of her domestic life), but many kept schedules and routines that look as
ordinary and predictable as those in anyone else's life.2
Here's a peek at what the prolific Ben Franklin called his daily scheme:
Source: © Project Gutenberg.
Ben's schedule looks an awful lot like everyday work. Like routine. Like a conventional pattern you'd see from
someone punching a clock in a factory.
Well…that's because it is. Becoming a better writer—working the muscle—takes some commitment to simply

-- 35 of 360 --

show up, not unlike the commitment I kept with my gym trainer, Dorothy. Both writing and strength training
can feel awkward and a little painful at first: I felt like a total poser donning spandex and sneakers, and I felt
idiotic grunting under the weight of barbells that seemed sized for an undernourished eight-year-old. But the
point is to keep at it, even when it's uncomfortable and you'd rather quit.
Simply put, the key to being a better writer is to write.
Make a regular habit of it, because as author Gretchen Rubin writes, “Habits are the invisible architecture of
everyday life.”3 In this case, habit lends the necessary scaffolding to support better writing.
“Write like crap if you have to. But write every day. Keep the streak alive,” said Beth Dunn, a user-experience
editor for HubSpot, during a talk on how to become a “writing god” at her company's 2013 user event in Boston.4
So what kind of prescription works?
Set aside time each day when you're freshest. I'm freshest first thing in the morning, before distractions hijack
my day. For you it might be different. You've been living with yourself long enough to know what time of day
would work for you, so I'll leave that in your hands.
Don't write a lot. Just write often. The advice to write often is from author Jeff Goins, who points out on his
site, GoinsWriter.com, “Spending five hours on a Saturday writing isn't nearly as valuable as spending 30
minutes a day every day of the week. Especially when you're just getting started.”
I love how Jeff talks about why that daily part is important: He says habits “practiced once a week aren't habits
at all. They're obligations.”
“And let's not kid ourselves here,” he adds. “If you're doing something once a week, it's probably only a matter of
time before you stop doing it altogether.”5
There are no shortcuts to becoming a better writer. So show up at your desk and get to it. Daily.

-- 36 of 360 --

Notes
1. “Taylor Mali answers the question, ‘Where is your favorite place to write?’” YouTube video, posted by Taylor
Mali, September 15, 2007, www.youtube.com/watch?v=O_POEIhEXRI.
2. Mason Currey, Daily Rituals: How Artists Work (New York: Knopf Doubleday, 2013).
3. Gretchen Rubin, “The Habits We Most Want to Foster,” Psychology Today, 21 February 2014,
www.psychologytoday.com/blog/the-happiness-project/201402/the-habits-we-most-want-foster-or-the-
essential-seven.
4. INBOUND Bold Talks: Beth Dunn “How To Be a Writing God,” YouTube video, posted by HubSpot, 8 January
2014, www.youtube.com/watch?v=S8Q3vnPM6kk.
5. Jeff Goins, “Why You Need to Write Every Day,” Goins, Writer (blog), www.goinswriter.com/write-every-day.

-- 37 of 360 --



-- 38 of 360 --

3
Shed High School Rules
This past spring, College Board officials announced sweeping revisions to the SAT college entrance exam. Key
among the changes was that the dreaded five-paragraph essay portion of the test will become entirely optional
in 2016.
MIT professor Les Perelman has long been a harsh critic of the essay. In a New York Times Magazine piece,
Perelman talked about research he conducted that highlighted the folly of the essay, finding that essay length,
fancy words, and a sprinkling of random, esoteric facts all correlate with high essay scores. In that piece and in a
subsequent interview on NPR, Perelman recalled how he coached 16 students who were retaking the test after
having received mediocre scores on the essay section. The Times reporter Todd Balf writes:
He told them that details mattered but factual accuracy didn't. “You can tell them the War of 1812 began in
1945,” he said. He encouraged them to sprinkle in little-used but fancy words like “plethora” or “myriad”
and to use two or three preselected quotes from prominent figures like Franklin Delano Roosevelt,
regardless of whether they were relevant to the question asked.
Perelman encouraged them to be long-winded and to fill up the entire test booklet—and the margins and back
pages—if they could. The result: 15 of his 16 pupils scored higher than the ninetieth percentile on the essay
when they retook the exam, Perelman said. And—most tellingly—he added (in a subsequent interview on
Boston's WBUR): “and then I told them never to write that way again!” Because, he said, “no one is actually
learning anything about writing.”1
Many of us learned in high school to write what is commonly known as the five-paragraph essay, similar in
format to the soon-to-be-former SAT test. It goes something like this:
1. Introduction. The introduction is a thesis statement or a kind of mini-outline of what the essay will cover.
2. Body Paragraph One. Body paragraph one should include the strongest argument, most compelling example,
or cleverest point that dramatizes your thesis. The first sentence of this paragraph should include the so-
called reverse hook, which ties in with the transitional hook at the end of the introductory paragraph. The
topic for this paragraph should be covered in its first or second sentence. That topic should relate to the
thesis statement in the introductory paragraph. The last sentence in this paragraph should include a
transitional hook to tie into the second paragraph of the body.
3. Body Paragraph Two. Body paragraph two should include the second-strongest argument, compelling
example, or cleverest point.
4. Body Paragraph Three. Body paragraph three should include the third (or weakest) argument, example, or
point.
5. Conclusion. Your conclusion should be a restatement of the thesis statement that uses some of the original
words to echo—but not duplicate—the opening paragraph, as well as a summary of the three main points.
This might be a perfectly fine structure to help guide a classroom of young writers in middle school. (Some
educators actually debate its use, but that's a topic for them to debate, not me.) The problem with its use beyond
that, though, is that it's so structured and formulaic that it's boring to write and boring to read. Worse still, it
implies there is just one right way to write and that other approaches to writing are wrong.
There is no one way to write—just as there is no one way to parent a child or roast a turkey.
What you learned in school might've once been a helpful guidepost. But it's time to let go. As Janis says in the
movie Mean Girls: “That's the thing with five-paragraph essays. You think everybody is in love with them when
actually everybody HATES them!”
Actually, Janis was talking about the school's mean girls—The Plastics. Not essays. But same dif.

-- 39 of 360 --

Note
1. Todd Balf, “The Story Behind the SAT Overhaul,” New York Times Magazine, March 6, 2014,
www.nytimes.com/2014/03/09/magazine/the-story-behind-the-sat-overhaul.html and “Revising the SAT,”
WBUR, March 6, 2014, radioboston.wbur.org/2014/03/06/sat-changes.

-- 40 of 360 --



-- 41 of 360 --

4
Regard Publishing as a Privilege
The best companies don't just churn out regular blog posts with the heavy-handedness of an orphanage doling
out gruel. Rather, they put the needs of their audiences first; they regard the ability to create content as
something of a privilege, as my friend Tom Fishburne of Marketoonist.com often notes.
Does it sound quaint to suggest that publishing is a privilege instead of some kind of perceived right?
I don't think so. Instead, I think it's a necessary mind-set that creates a breeding ground for great content.
Inherent in that attitude is that you value your relationship with your audience, and that you put their needs
first.
I don't say that lightly: every bit of content you create should be to please the customer or prospect—not your
boss or client. More on that in a few.
We all have easy access to a publishing platform and a potential audience. We all have great power to influence,
educate, entertain, and help—but also to annoy, irritate, and…sometimes…fritter away our opportunity entirely.
So the challenge for companies is to respect their audiences and deliver what the audience needs in a way that's
useful, enjoyable, and inspired. The challenge is to also keep it tight, as Tim Washer, who produces video for
Cisco, espouses. That means clarity, brevity, and utility.
Brevity doesn't mean bare bones or stripped down. Take as long as you need to tell the story. (The length of
content is dictated by the kind of content you're creating.) The notion of brevity has more to do with cutting fat,
bloat, and things that indulge the writer and don't respect the reader's time. Keep it tight.
Make it clear. Don't make the reader work hard to understand you. Develop pathological empathy for the reader.
(More on that in a minute too.) And finally, make it useful. Readers will read what you write only if something
is in it for them.
Write, rewrite, edit. As content strategist Jonathon Colman, who works for Facebook, told me: “Start with
empathy. Continue with utility. Improve with analysis. Optimize with love.”

-- 42 of 360 --



-- 43 of 360 --

5
Place the Most Important Words (and Ideas) at the Beginning of Each
Sentence
We tend to junk up the beginning of our sentences with modifiers and qualifiers, making the reader work harder
to discern what, exactly, we are saying. It might sound remedial to say that each sentence should begin with the
subject (the actor) and verb (the action), but it's the easiest way to buff up bad writing to make it more
appealing.
The first words of every sentence should make a friendly first impression to encourage the reader to keep going
—much the way a favorable first impression at a party encourages conversation (as opposed to, say, desperate
glances around the room to find some other opportunity).
Here's what I mean.
This is the first sentence of an introductory paragraph of a Centers for Disease Control and Prevention style
guide: “According to the National Assessment of Adult Literacy (NAAL), released in 2006 by the U.S.
Department of Education, 30 million adults struggle with basic reading tasks.”1
The primary idea in that sentence is that millions of people are not fully literate; everything else in it is
secondary. The primary idea—the important words—should be placed at the beginning. So:
“Thirty million adults struggle with reading, according to the National Assessment of Adult Literacy (NAAL)
report, released in 2006 by the U.S. Department of Education.”
(Ironically, the guide is titled Simply Put, though much of it is not put simply at all.)
Also from Simply Put (ignore, for the moment, the incorrect use of the semicolon):
“It is important to remember; however, that even those with higher health literacy skills want health
information that is understandable, meaningful to them, and easy to use.”
What happens when you scrap the stuff at the beginning of that sentence (“It is important to remember;
however, that…”)? You eliminate distractions, and you highlight what's important—without changing the
meaning: “Even those with higher health literacy skills want health information that is understandable,
meaningful to them, and easy to use.”
Here are some phrases to avoid at the start of a sentence:
According to…
There is a…
It is [important, critical, advised, suggested, and so on]…
In my opinion…
The purpose of this [email, post, article] is…
In 2014 [or any year]…
I think [believe] that…
You can tack them onto the end, or insert them somewhere in the middle—if you must use them at all.

-- 44 of 360 --

Note
1. Simply Put: A Guide for Creating Easy-to-Understand Materials (Third Edition), Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention, July 2010, www.cdc.gov/healthliteracy/pdf/simply_put.pdf

-- 45 of 360 --



-- 46 of 360 --

6
Follow a Writing GPS
At times, writing can feel like birthing a Volkswagen to me (I've even used that metaphor on occasion to
describe writing this book). The writer Andre Dubus (House of Sand and Fog) has described writing as inching
your way along a very dark, very long tunnel: you can make out the next few feet in front of you, but you're not
quite certain where you'll end up or when you'll get there.
What helps with the uncertainty and enormity of the task is to start with some kind of process to guide the way.
When I was in middle school and learning to be a better writer, though, the focus was purely on the end product.
My teachers emphasized the final paper versus the rough drafts and scratch notes that preceded it. In other
words, they were more interested in seventh-grade Ann's delivering an essay on The Red Badge of Courage's
Henry Fleming than they were in how that essay came to be sitting on their desk at all.
Or so it seemed at that time. Maybe process was part of the curriculum (Ms. Dolan, if you are reading this now,
please clarify for me). But I don't recall much emphasis on the necessary checkpoints along the way to that final
piece—the beacons that guide the entire effort.
Process is one of those things that in many parts of life I consider hopelessly boring and mind-numbing. Like
peeling the skins of raw tomatoes. Or scrubbing dirt from beets. But in writing, process is necessary, because
you need a road map to get you to where you need to be.
Essentially, it's a kind of writing GPS that gets you from discombobulated thoughts to a coherent, cogent piece
of writing that others can understand and appreciate.
What follows is the 12-step process for any new, longer text you might produce—blog posts, e-books, white
papers, site content, and the like. It's the process I use to write any blog post that appears on MarketingProfs or
AnnHandley.com, and I use it to create my monthly column in Entrepreneur magazine. Also, I've used it to
cobble together the bones of video scripts and presentations, as well as longer memo-style emails.
You'll notice that some of the themes here are also discussed elsewhere in this book. Serving the reader and not
the writer, for one. Finding credible sources or data to support your point of view, for another. And creating The
Ugly First Draft (TUFD).
But having a big-picture view of the process, or an outline of it, is useful. As we'll talk about in The Ugly First
Draft section, good writing takes planning and preparation; it doesn't just emerge, fully formed, out of the head
of Zeus. Or your own head, for that matter.
(You can dig further into some of the 12 steps, as noted. Or you can simply rely on this CliffsNotes version. Your
call.)
1. Goal. What's your business goal? What are you trying to achieve? Anything you write should always be
aligned with a larger (business or marketing) goal—even an individual blog post.
The key here is that you care about what you're writing: you can try to fake it, but your readers will be
allergic to your insincerity. Why does that matter? Because if you don't care about what you're writing
about, no one will.
Let's say your goal is this: I want to drive awareness of and interest in the launch of our incredibly cool new
collaborative editing software because we want to sell more of it.
2. Reframe: put your reader into it. Reframe the idea to relate it to your readers. Why does it matter to them?
What's in it for them? Why should they care? What's the clear lesson or message you want them to take
away? What value do you offer them? What questions might they have? What advice or help can you
provide?
My friend Tim Washer of Cisco refers to this reframing as giving your audience a gift: how can you best
serve them, with a mind-set of generosity and giving?
To get to the heart of this reframing, I ask: so what? And then answer, because. Repeat the so what/because
query and response string as many times as necessary, until you've exhausted any ability to come up with

-- 47 of 360 --

an answer. Or until you're questioning things best left to the philosophers. As in:
I want to drive interest and awareness in the launch of our new collaborative editing software.
So what?
Because our new text editor makes it stupid easy in three specific ways for those of you without a geek
gene to easily collaborate from remote locales, without overwriting each other's stuff or losing earlier
versions.
So what?
Because that's a pain to deal with, and it causes a lot of frustration and suffering for collaborative, virtual
teams.
So what?
Because pain…it hurts. And suffering is…umm…bad.
You get the idea.
Express your reframed idea as a clear message. In this case, something like this:
Our new text editor makes it stupid easy in three specific ways for those of you without a geek gene to
easily work together from remote locales, without overwriting each other's stuff or losing earlier
versions, which makes for happier, less frustrated collaborators. And you'll get your work done faster,
with less wasted effort.
Then put that at the top of the page, like a bonfire on the beachhead, to remind you where you're headed.
3. Seek out the data and examples. What credible source supports your main idea? Are there examples, data,
real-world stories, relevant anecdotes, timely developments, or new stories you can cite? (See specific advice
about using data in Part IV.)
Don't discount your own experience; at the same time, don't rely exclusively on it. Use yourself as one of
your sources if you have relevant experience (many writers in the New Yorker do so frequently; see Rule
17). That works, because “the more personal you are, the more universal you become,” says Chip Scanlan,
Poynter.org's writing advice columnist.
“The writer who uses herself as a source and resource has the greatest chance of connecting with the largest
audience,” Chip points out. “[A]sk yourself: What do I think about this story? What do I know about it?”
You'll want to research your topic, of course. But “the smart writers I know start out by tapping into their
own private stock first,” Chip says.1
In our example, ask: Is there research that quantifies the problem? Who else has dealt with catastrophes or
successes? Could you talk to those people or organizations to get their firsthand horror stories and advice?
Also, what's been your own experience?
4. Organize. What structure helps communicate your point? Some options are a list, a how-to guide, and a
client narrative. Organize the outline or general architecture that suits that type of story best. (See Rule 8.)
5. Write to one person. Imagine the one person you're helping with this piece of writing. And then write directly
to that person (using you, as opposed to using people or they).
Connect your reader to the issue you're writing about (again, why does it matter to him or her?), perhaps by
relaying a scenario or telling a story. Put your reader (or someone just like him or her) into your story right
up front—because you want the reader to recognize and relate to an issue. (See Rule 17 for more.)
6. Produce The Ugly First Draft. Producing The Ugly First Draft is basically where you show up and throw up.
Write badly. Write as if no one will ever read it. (Stephen King calls this “writing with the door closed.”)
Don't worry about grammar, complete sentences, or readability. Don't fret about spelling or usage. You'll
tackle all that later. For now, just get that TUFD down.
By the way, this show-up-and-throw-up phase is often where many bloggers end the process. But you won't
do that—because you have respect both for your writing and for your reader.

-- 48 of 360 --

7. Walk away. Walking away is self-explanatory. You don't need to actually go for a walk, of course. Just put
some distance between your first draft and the second.
How much distance depends on you. I try to put a day between my own (usually spectacularly ugly!) TUFD
and the next step, because that amount of time seems to let my thinking season and mature. I feel better
prepared to slap those words around a little, willing them to shape up on the page.
I don't always have the luxury of that long a fermentation period—and if a piece is tied to a news story you
might not either. So work with what you've got. But at least try to get out of the building—maybe grab a
coffee or a slice of pie or something.
8. Rewrite. Shape that mess into something that a reader wants to read. In your head, swap places with your
reader as you do so. (See Rule 10.)
9. Give it a great headline or title. See Rule 69 for more on writing irresistible headlines.
10. Have someone edit. Ideally, the person who edits your piece will have a tight grip on grammar, usage, style,
and punctuation. Like a bona fide editor. (See Rule 24.)
11. One final look for readability. Does your piece look inviting, alluring, easy to scan? With short paragraphs
and bold subheads? Are your lists numbered or bulleted? For the most part, chunky chunks of text feel
impenetrable and don't convey energy and movement. In other words, bulky text doesn't look like much fun
to read. (See Rule 25.)
12. Publish, but not without answering one more reader question: what now? Don't leave your readers just
standing awkwardly in the middle of the dance floor after the music stops. What do you want them to do
next?
Check out other resources?
Sign up to hear more?
Register for an event or a free trial?
Buy something?
Consider the order of the steps in this outlined writing process merely a suggestion. You can toss them around
and follow them in any order you wish—perhaps you like to barf your first draft onto the page incoherently
(Rule 6) and then organize your writing into something more cogent (Rule 4). That's fine; it's completely at your
discretion. There is no one way to write, remember?
(The only order I wouldn't suggest is backward, because that's just dumb.)

-- 49 of 360 --

Note
1. Chip Scanlan, “Ten Paradoxes of the Writing Life,” Chip Scanlan, Poynter, August 2, 2002,
www.poynter.org/uncategorized/1576/ten-paradoxes-of-the-writing-life.

-- 50 of 360 --



-- 51 of 360 --

7
The More the Think, the Easier the Ink
“It's not the ink—it's the think,” wrote New Yorker cartoon editor Robert Mankoff, when asked about the secret
to drawing the magazine's iconic cartoons.
“As cartoon editor, I'm often asked how to get ideas for cartoons by people who want to submit them to the New
Yorker,” Mankoff wrote on the New Yorker blog. “There really is no trick—you just have to think of them.”1
Mankoff's think-before-ink mnemonic is easily applied to the first and second GPS checkpoints of writing too:
distilling an idea, and reframing it for your reader. (An aside—it would also be a great tagline for a tattoo studio.)
Mankoff's deliberately oversimplified answer reveals a fundamental truth about cartoons, and about any
content: the more you think about what you want to say, and plan for it, the easier it is to say.
Figuring out what you want to say before you figure out how to say it seems an obvious first step. But many
writers tend to shortchange that step—they instead charge straight at the water and wade in, slogging through
the surf until pretty soon they're out of their depth and they're flailing around wondering how they ended up
there at all.
“If I'm really struggling, it's usually not about the writing—it's about the thinking: I just don't really have the
story down yet,” Doug Kessler told me. “So more research or groping with the outline can unstick me.
“If I do know the story but I'm just dopey or sleepy or grumpy (my preferred dwarf-personas), I give it a rest, get
some sleep or take a shower or pound some Diet Coke or take a walk,” Doug added. “An hour with a fresh mind
is worth five hours of fog.”
So, before you begin the writing, be sure you know the purpose or mission or objective of every piece of content
that you write. What are you trying to achieve? What information, exactly, are you trying to communicate? And
why should your audience care?
A caveat: some writers—including me—write as a way to figure out what we think. You, too, might develop your
thoughts through writing, and you might not always have a clear sense of what exactly you want to say until
you're knee-deep in the water. In that case the think-before-ink idea might seem counterproductive, but it's not.
I'm talking about having a general sense of the key point or direction of the piece, as well as how to relate to the
audience, even if that general sense is not fully fleshed out in your own head before you start.
Often the flailing comes about because we haven't thought about an idea enough to find that key point—in
which case we haven't thought through the supporting arguments we want to make to shore up that point. So it
helps to first jot down thoughts to try to find a focus and points in support of it (see Rule 8).
Think before ink means finding your key point by asking three questions about every bit of content you're
creating. We talked a lot about this process in Rule 6, but to recap:
Why am I creating this? What's my objective?
What is my key take on the subject or issue? What's my point of view?
And, finally, the critical so what?-because exercise: why does it matter to the people you are trying to reach?
In some cases that key point becomes the headline. Sometimes during the writing phase I think of something
better to use as a headline. But, still, that exercise lends the necessary focus.
And, by the way, this approach applies equally well to blog posts or presentations or books. You might have
more supporting points in a book or longer piece of content, but you should still be able to describe the key
point in a single sentence. As I'm writing now, the guiding sentence at the top of my page is this: A handbook
for businesses to create better content with more care and discretion, because we live in a world where we are
all writers. It's not very artful, but it's getting the job done.
Shakespeare probably wrote Hamlet with this sentence at the top of his parchment: Angsty, brooding Danish
prince goes nuts (or does he?) but murders many, including the creepy uncle who had killed his father and
married his mother.

-- 52 of 360 --

Or maybe not. But it's fun to think he did.

-- 53 of 360 --

Note
1. Robert Mankoff, “Inking and Thinking,” New Yorker blog, June 16, 2010,
www.newyorker.com/online/blogs/cartoonists/2010/06/inking-and-thinking.html.

-- 54 of 360 --



-- 55 of 360 --

8
Organize. Relax, You've Got This
Good writing is like math: it has logic and structure. It feels solid to the reader: the writer is in control, having
taken on the heavy burden of making a piece of writing clear and accessible. It might not follow a formula,
exactly. But there's a kind of geometric architecture to it.
There's no single way to organize a piece of writing. What works for me (as I said previously) is a single line at
the top of the page that sums up the main point I'm trying to make. Then I list some key points that relate to or
support my bigger idea. Then I go back and expand on those ideas in another sentence or two, creating
paragraphs. Then I move the paragraphs around, adding transitions between them to create a smooth flow.
In other words, I make a list, because it feels less intimidating to make a list than it does to write. (Do you ever
feel stumped about where to begin a shopping list? Me neither.)
Your process might be different. Rather than a list, you might use mind mapping, a flowchart, note cards, sticky
notes, a pen and paper, a whiteboard and some fat markers, or whatever. J. K. Rowling sussed out the first
Harry Potter novel using graphing paper and a ball-point pen.
Chicago-based marketer Andy Crestodina writes an outline of a piece and then makes the main points its
headers. Then he fleshes out the outline in a kind of fill-in-the-blank exercise. For him, “great writing isn't
written, as much as assembled,” Andy told me.
“I almost always write an outline, even if it's only a scribble on a piece of paper,” Doug Kessler said in an
interview with me. “It helps me plan the arc of the story and the flow, so I always know where I'm headed.”
Similarly, Chris Penn, who writes prolifically (almost daily) about marketing and social media on his Awaken
Your Superhero blog, showed me recently how he fleshed out nine sentence fragments into a 400-word blog
post that related business to martial arts.
So this:
You understand what to do, unpack the bottle.
A lot of frameworks and models are shorthand like the heart Sutra.
To make the most of it you need to unpack it and take it apart.
This is exactly what we do in the martial arts with our kata.
Our routines are unpacked at each move study.
By doing this with marketing frameworks and models as bottles we can understand what it is we are
supposed to do with each individual portion of a funnel.
This is operationalizing a big idea that you take apart until we understand how it actually works.
This is also how to detect which are genuine big ideas and which are bullshit.
You unpack an idea that is bullshit and you'll find nothing to operationalize.
Became this when it was published later on his blog:

-- 56 of 360 --

How to Assess a Big Marketing Idea
See if this sounds familiar: marketing thought leader X publishes a new paper with a grand Big Idea,
complete with fancy infographic and a chart or framework that is both dazzlingly complex and slightly
intimidating. Whether you like said thought leader or not, you wonder whether their Big Idea is actually
worth pursuing, or whether it's just a bunch of hot air, and pursuing it would be a waste of time and
resources.
I've been in that situation plenty of times over the years. I've seen lots of Big Ideas, lots of fancy
frameworks, lots of infographics whose design budget probably eclipsed some peoples' annual income. To
figure out what's the real deal and what's BS, I borrowed an idea from the martial arts.
In the martial arts tradition I practice, we have lots of Big Ideas called kata. Loosely translated from
Japanese, the word means form or routine, in the sense of something you practice. Each one is a Big Idea,
how to win in a certain way under a specific set of adverse circumstances.
My teacher, Mark Davis of the Boston Martial Arts Center, taught us that to learn and master a kata, you
have to break it apart and study each of the pieces. How does a wrist lock in the middle of Batsu Gi kata
work outside of those particular circumstances? Can you make it work versus a punch? A knife? You
operationalize each piece of the kata until you know how it works; when you put it back together, you
truly understand it.
This methodology, which has served me well for over two decades, is one you can use for evaluating any
thought leader's Big Idea. If you read about some new framework or concept, see if you can break it apart
into operational pieces. See if you can transform the Big Idea into little things that you can implement. If
you can, then you know the Big Idea has wheels—it's something that can be tested, evaluated in
components, and used to make change in your business at both tactical and strategic levels.
If you try to take apart a Big Idea and find that there's little or nothing you can operationally implement,
then you know the Big Idea is either a complete mismatch for your organization, or it might be full of hot
air entirely. Try it with any of the Big Ideas of the day and see if you can turn them into Little Things To
Do!
Source: Christopher S. Penn, “How to Assess a Big Marketing Idea,” Awaken Your Superhero (blog), April 2, 2104,
www.christopherspenn.com/2014/04/how-to-assess-a-big-marketing-idea.
Your preferred method for organizing a piece doesn't matter. The point is to keep yourself focused and organized
via some set framework so you don't meander all over the place.
Working from a prescription offers some guideposts to follow and gives you momentum toward what's next.
How can you organize a blog post or article? Whatever its substance, consider what form you want it to take.
Here are 15 approaches to framing your writing, adapted from Boston-based writing coach Paul Gillin. Here he
uses online privacy as a sample topic:

-- 57 of 360 --

Organizing a Blog Post or Article
1. Quiz. Test Your Privacy IQ
2. Skeptic. You Don't Control Your Privacy Anymore
3. Explainer. The Online Privacy Debate in Plain English
4. Case study. How One Person Got Control Over Privacy
5. Contrarian. Why Online Privacy Concerns Are Overblown
6. How-to. Five Steps to Improving Online Privacy
6½. Quick How-to. Three Stupid Simple Things You Can Do to Keep Your Profile Private
7. How NOT to. Five Ways to Compromise Your Online Privacy
8. First person. My Personal Privacy Horror Story
9. Comparison. How Privacy Protection Services Measure Up
10. Q&A. Five Common Questions About Online Privacy with Edward Snowden
11. Data. Are Privacy Problems Worsening? Yes, Says Survey
12. Man on the street. Experts Offer Opinions on the State of Online Privacy
13. Outrageous. Why Online Privacy Is an Oxymoron
13½. BuzzFeed-style outrageous (not advised, but good for a laugh!). This Woman Insists Online
Privacy Is a Joke, and You Won't Believe What Happened Next
14. Insider secrets. The One Thing You Need to Know About Your Online Privacy
15. Literary treatment. Online privacy haiku, epic narrative poem, comic book treatment, or whatever
else your imagination can muster!
Source: Paul Gillin, “Create Stuff They've Just Gotta Read: How to Write for #SocialNetworks,” presentation at MarketingProfs Digital
Marketing World, December 13, 2013, www.marketingprofs.com/events/24/dec2013/545/.

-- 58 of 360 --



-- 59 of 360 --

9
Embrace The Ugly First Draft
So now that you've figured out what to write—and generally how it'll go—just write. Or, rather, write badly and
create a first draft: The Ugly First Draft (TUFD) I talked about earlier.
TUFD isn't a pass you give yourself to produce substandard work. But it is a necessary part of the process of
creating above standard work.
In Greek mythology, the goddess Athena was the favorite daughter of Zeus. She was born not in the usual way;
rather, she emerged from his forehead fully grown and armed.
Much of writing paralysis is the result of expecting too much of ourselves the first time out. Sowing letters onto
the blank page and expecting something strong and powerful and fully formed—the content version of Athena—
to emerge is unrealistic. Unless you are some kind of deity, that's not going to happen.
Very often, the people you think of as good writers are terrible writers on their first drafts. But here's their
secret: They are excellent editors of their own work.
So embrace The Ugly First Draft as necessary. As painful and depressing as it might be to write badly—at least
you're writing, you're getting the mess out of your head and onto the screen or paper. Then, when you get back
to it, you can start shaping it into something more respectable.
Recognize that brilliance—or anything close to it—comes on the rewrite. That implies that there is a rewrite, of
course. And there should be.
As writing teacher Don Murray said, “The draft needs fixing, but first it needs writing.”1
Here's a timeline to keep in mind:
1. Barf up TUFD. Think about what you want to say (think before ink!) and add your guiding bullet points or
sentences at the top of the page.
Jot down your key ideas as they come to you in whatever order they come.
Don't worry about forming full (or even coherent!) sentences. Don't worry about finding the right words.
Lowercased words, misspelling, poor grammar, awkward phrasing, subject-verb disagreements so violent
they are practically fistfights…Let it all happen. You can fix all that stuff later. You're unleashing ideas here
as opposed to really writing.
If you get stuck, think about what's sticking. Do you need more research? More examples? Another point?
Inserting “need a better example here” or “could use a research stat” or “something-something that
supports that point” or “funnier anecdote” is more than legit during this phase.
Reread what you've written only to remind yourself of what else you wanted to say, or to add some flesh to
the bones of your terrible writing. (Even if it's rotting, smelly, walking-dead flesh.)
Ban self-slandering remarks. Don't beat yourself up by saying things like I'm a crappy writer or this is awful.
TUFD isn't for anyone to see but you. It's the content equivalent of staying home alone in your jammies all
day and eating peanut butter straight from the jar. Revel in it. There's no one around to judge.
2. Walk away. You'll feel some relief at getting the first draft out—but you might also feel frustrated by your
TUFD. So this is a good time to walk away from each other. Get some space so that you can both cool off a
bit. Grab the dog's leash and go for a walk, meet friends for lunch, whatever. Just put some distance between
you two. Then, when you get back to it, you'll be fresh and (hopefully) less agitated.
As I said in Rule 6, I like to put a lot of distance between me and my ugliness. I try to not look at my TUFD
again until the next day.
3. Rewrite. When you do get back to it, you might be horrified. You might shield your eyes the way nineteenth-
century London recoiled from John Hurt in the movie The Elephant Man. But you will find things you like
that you can upcycle. In other words, take the best parts of the draft and use them in your final product. How
to do that is covered next.

-- 60 of 360 --

Note
1. Thomas Newkirk and Lisa C. Miller, eds., The Essential Don Murray: Lessons from America's Greatest
Writing Teacher (Portsmouth, NH: Boynton-Cook Publishers, 2009).

-- 61 of 360 --



-- 62 of 360 --

10
Swap Places with Your Reader
“The reader doesn't turn the page because of a hunger to applaud,” said longtime writing teacher Don Murray.1
Good writing serves the reader, not the writer. It isn't self-indulgent. Good writing anticipates the questions that
readers might have as they're reading a piece, and it answers them.
Some writers adopt this mind-set during the initial writing phase. But this perspective is especially helpful on
the rewrite or edit, once the first draft is out of your head and onto the page.
Swap places with your reader. Be a skeptic of your own work. Get out of your own head, and into your reader's
or your customer's. Relentlessly, unremittingly, obstinately think of things from your readers' point of view,
with empathy for the experience you are giving them.
In his essay “Politics and the English Language,” George Orwell wrote: “A scrupulous writer, in every sentence
that he writes will ask himself at least four questions, thus: What am I trying to say? What words will express
it? What image or idiom will make it clearer? Is this image fresh enough to have an effect?
And he will probably ask himself two more: Could I put it more shortly? Have I said anything that is avoidably
ugly?” (Hat tip to the Economist style guide for that one.2)
You might notice that the idea of serving the reader in the realm of writing isn't unlike how the best content
marketing serves the customer (or user, a word I hate to use to refer to people).
Yet often in writing and in business we put ourselves first. Many writers, too, think sometimes that it's all about
them. And many organizations—especially those with multiple points of review or layers of bureaucracy—tend
to place other agendas above the interests of the reader. They hold a spot at the front of the line for the boss, the
CEO, the exec, the legal department, whatever…
But that's a mistake, because you (as a marketer or content creator) should be the customer advocate. The only
people your content needs to please are your readers. Because ultimately you serve them, and not your boss or
your CEO or your client.
Why? If the customer loves your content, so will your boss or client. But the inverse isn't necessarily true: if
only your boss loves it, it won't achieve what your organization needs it to.
So create every bit of content to please just one person: your customer or prospect—not your boss (or client, if
you're at an agency). Think of it this way: what would your content look like if your customer signed your
paycheck? It's up to you to advocate for this point of view.
Relentlessly, unremittingly, obstinately focus on the reader.
So write your first draft as you usually would—then go back and rework it, swapping places with your readers to
consider things from their point of view, with honest empathy for the experience you are giving them. Ask
yourself:
What experience is this creating for the reader?
What questions might they have?
Am I making them work too hard to figure out what I am trying to say?

-- 63 of 360 --

Notes
1. Thomas Newkirk and Lisa C. Miller, eds., The Essential Don Murray: Lessons from America's Greatest
Writing Teacher (Portsmouth, NH: Boynton-Cook Publishers, 2009).
2. The Economist Style Guide, accessed June 6, 2014, www.economist.com/styleguide/introduction.

-- 64 of 360 --



-- 65 of 360 --

11
Humor Comes on the Rewrite
Humor comes on the rewrite. So do the best analogies, the clearest construction, the best writing—period.
I'm breaking this out as a separate rule for emphasis, because reworking the work is what separates us from the
chimps. Or at least from self-indulgent writers who put their own needs above their audience's.

-- 66 of 360 --



-- 67 of 360 --

12
Develop Pathological Empathy
Some people are naturally empathic. They easily understand another's point of view, and they immediately grok
what another might be feeling in any scenario. If that is you, congrats: you're ahead of the game. The rest of us
have to work a little harder, and a little more intentionally, to get into the customer mind-set.
“Good writing (and therefore crafting good experiences) requires us to understand and have empathy for our
audience, their situation, their needs and goals,” says Jonathon Colman of Facebook. “The best content
experiences are pitched perfectly in the sweet spot, the nexus of all those human factors.”
In other words, empathy for the customer experience should be at the root of all of your content, because having
a sense of the people you are writing for and a deep understanding of their problems is key to honing your skill.
Content created merely to further a search engine ranking is a waste of time and effort. What matters now is
creating useful content that solves customer problems, shoulders their burdens, eases their pain, enriches their
lives. We wrote that in Content Rules, but recent and various Google updates have seemed to finally make it
permanent and official. (Sing hallelujah!)
That means you have to meet people where they are, with an attitude of benevolence and largesse, to help them
find answers to the problems they have. All of your content—your product pages, your landing pages, your
customer support text, your About Us pages, and so on “need to use language to support people's needs and
goals,” Colman told me. “And each of those experiences requires very thoughtful writing that's appropriate to
what the audience needs from us in those situations. A listicle of 14 Cats Who Look Just Like Elvis just ain't
gonna work when someone needs to figure out how our products work.”
So how do you know what people need? That's where enormous, mammoth, almost pathological empathy
comes in. Start by getting to know your customers.
“It's hard to have real empathy for real people's experiences if we don't really get to know the people
themselves,” Colman said. “Not just in aggregate, not just as a collection of Web analytics data, search queries,
or spreadsheets…I mean the real deal: actually talking with them. Or, better still: listening to them.”
Empathy—like writing—isn't a gift. It's a discipline. It takes some intentional effort and diligence to develop
enormous empathy so that you can apply it to your writing. “You're not engaging in a one-time action,” Colman
says. “You're building a long-term relationship.”
Here are some first steps toward building enormous empathy, from Jonathon Colman (the quoted portions are
his words from an interview I conducted with him):
1. Spend time with your customers or prospects. Spending time with your customers sounds obvious, doesn't
it? But it's surprising how few marketers actually interact with their customers; often, only customer service
or sales teams do. Listen to customer service inquiries. Watch how customers behave. See what problems
they have. “Look for patterns.”
2. Understand their habitat. “Beyond putting together a focus group in an artificial setting or doing so-called
user experience testing in a lab environment, arrange to visit the people who use your content or products in
their natural habitat.…Talk with them in their homes, at their jobs; watch them as they browse your site or
use your app on mobile while waiting in line at the coffee shop. This will give you an entirely new
understanding of what people need from you and your content. You can't develop empathy without context.”
3. Be a natural skeptic. A powerful question is, Why? Why do you do things that way? Why do you feel that
way?
4. Ask why they do it. “Never assume that you know the answer to why your readers or the people who use
your products do what they do…You might be great at using analytics systems to measure every nuance of a
person's behavior on your site or in your app. But analytics only tell us what people did, not why they did it.
So ask. And then ask again. And keep asking until you understand the bigger picture of what people value
and what they need from you.”
5. Share story, not just stats. “A lot of companies build dashboards and monitors that they install all over the
office that are filled with analytics data: How many concurrent users are on the site, the data throughput of

-- 68 of 360 --

the app, the number of transactions per hour, and so on.”
But what about feedback from the people on your site or the people using your products? You can display
that, too. And while you can build aggregate metrics around this feedback (sentiment, length, complaints
per hour, etc.), it's even more powerful to display people's actual comments. Follow that up by building
rapid workflows to solve problems and you're putting empathy into action!
I'd add a simple shortcut—an empathy hack—to help you get into the customer mind-set:
6. Use a customer-centric POV. Replace I or we with you to shift the focus to the customer's point of view.
Then write (or rewrite) accordingly. For example:
Company-centric: We offer accelerated application development.
Customer-centric: Deploy an app to the cloud at lunch hour. And still have time to eat. (From the home
page of Kinvey.com.)
Company-centric: We are the leading global B2B research and advisory firm. We deliver actionable
intelligence, strategic and operational frameworks and personal guidance from experienced
practitioners. (From Sirius Decisions.1)
Customer-centric: Make better business decisions based on actionable insight and years of experience
placed at your disposal.
Enormous empathy is especially important for sales copy or marketing landing pages, where you should be very
specific about what your value offers to your customers—and not just what the offer is, Nadia Eghbal, co-owner
of Feast, an online cooking school, told me in an interview.
“Your customers don't buy your product to do your company a favor,” Eghbal said. “They're doing it because
your product makes their lives better. So if you want to sell something, you need to explain how you're helping
them.”
On its home page, Feast shifted from company-centric to customer-centric writing, like this:
Company-centric: A Better Way to Learn How to Cook. (This statement was too nonspecific, Nadia said.
Better in what way? And according to whom?)
Customer-centric: Become a Cook in 30 Days.
Eghbal credits Feast's shift in messaging for a tenfold increase in sales, and she cites soul-filling anecdotal
evidence, too (actual feedback, as Jonathon Colman advises). “We regularly get emails from people along the
lines of ‘Wow, everything on your home page describes me to a T!’—which suggests we're resonating with
customers in the right way,” she said.
And more broadly: the best way to keep readers reading is to talk about them, not you.

-- 69 of 360 --

Note
1. www.siriusdecisions.com/Who-We-Are.aspx.

-- 70 of 360 --



-- 71 of 360 --

13
‘Cross Out the Wrong Words’
“Writing is easy,” said Mark Twain. “All you have to do is cross out the wrong words.”
Revisiting a first draft to rework and rewrite it doesn't sound like much fun, does it? It sounds like drudgery and
tedium, like alphabetizing canned goods.
But it's not really, because there's a kind of freedom in it. You've already done the hard part of setting down the
words. Now comes the easier (and, for some, less anxiety-inducing) part of distilling it to its essence—or,
crossing out the wrong words and the unnecessary words, and sometimes finding better ones to use.
Revising is my favorite part of writing—because it's when I (or you!) do the creative, fun part of writing. To me
the first draft feels more like pure ball-and-chain drudgery. The editing is where you get to make some merry.
I'm not talking here about having someone else edit your work, by the way. That comes later. First, you need to
take a first pass at shaping your own work—essentially rewriting much of it.
There are two approaches to self-editing:
1. Developmental editing, which I call editing by chainsaw. Here's where you look at the big picture.
2. Line editing, which I call editing by surgical tools. Here's where you look at paragraph and sentence flow,
word choice, usage, and so on.
I like to use both on the same piece, first one…and then the other.
Editing by chainsaw. First, ignore the grammar and specific words you've used, and focus on the bigger stuff.
State your key idea as clearly as you can near the start. You might've gotten bogged down by setting up an
idea with too much introductory explanation, instead of just getting right into it. (See Rule 15.) If so, remove
that introductory text, whittle it down, or (if it's really good) use it elsewhere.
Slash anything that feels extraneous—if it doesn't support your main point or further your argument, or if
it distracts from the key point. (Even if it's a good story or anecdote.)
Make every paragraph earn its keep. Does every paragraph contain an idea that the one before or after it
doesn't? It should. Are the paragraphs more like Frankenparagraphs—made up of disconnected sentences
bolted awkwardly together, creating an ugly mess? They shouldn't be. The sentences should instead build on
one another, furthering a single idea and creating a whole.
Make every sentence earn its keep. Does it bring something unique to the paragraph? Or does it simply
restate what its buddy before it already said? If so, kill it. Be ruthless. Adopt a less-is-more mind-set: many
writers take too long to get to the point; they use too many words. Don't be that guy. Write concisely.
Move things around. Are things in the right order? Does one point flow into the next?
Think of the sentences in a paragraph as a conversation between an elderly, companionable couple. They
don't talk over each other; they expand or elucidate what the other before them said.
Editing with surgical tools. Next, turn off the chainsaw and turn back to the words.
Trim the bloat and fat. Are you potentially using far too many words to say things that might be said more
concisely?
Shed the obvious. There's no need to include in this article, in this post, in regard to, I've always felt that,
we are of the opinion that…You get the idea.
Lose Frankenwords, word additives, clichés, and words pretending to be something they're not. (See Rules
29 and 30.)
Trim word bloat. Sub in single words for phrases (some samples: sub although for despite the fact that;
when or in for when it comes to; when or at times for there will be times when; remains for continues to be;
and about or regarding for in regard to).
Ditch adverbs unless they are necessary to adjust the meaning. (Rule 34.)

-- 72 of 360 --

Ditch weakling verbs in favor of stronger, ripped ones. (Rule 33.)
Create transitions between paragraphs. Good transitions greatly improve the feel and reader-friendliness of
any work. The best writing flows from paragraph to paragraph, creating progression and cadence. Good
transitions are like fine stitching, turning disconnected writing into a seamless whole.
Draw natural connections between paragraphs. Again, don't merely rely on high school transitions like
however, thus, therefore, and so on. Instead, pick up an idea from the previous paragraph and connect it to
an idea in the next paragraph.
Did you notice that I just wrote 700 words on editing but didn't once mention grammar? That's not because
grammar isn't important. It is, as we'll talk about in Part II. But writers tend to equate editing with fixing the
grammar, when it's so much more than that.
Fixing the grammar is copyediting (also important), but it's more important to get the writing right first. You
can then go get some help with the copyedit (see Rule 24).

-- 73 of 360 --



-- 74 of 360 --

14
Start with Dear Mom . . .
What if you have trouble simply getting off the starting block?
The fear of the blank page is the number one cliché in writing. “Some call it writer's block. Others call it
procrastination,” photographer and author Dane Sanders told me. Whatever you call it, it stops people from
writing even before they start.
I don't believe in writer's block. “My father never got truck driver's block,” as the journalist Roger Simon has
said.1 A house framer isn't daunted by the pile of two-by-fours. Nor was Edison intimidated by the blank
lightbulb, points out Colin Nissan in a piece on the humor website McSweeney's.2
More often than not, writer's block—or the reluctance to begin—is rooted in fear and anxiety about knowing
where, exactly, to start. I get that, because I procrastinate, too.
Before I begin to write, I pay all my bills. I catch up on any movies or TV series I might've never gotten around
to seeing. I change the oil in my car. I waste an hour or two on Facebook. I descale the coffee maker. I decide to
create something really complicated for dinner. Only then do I leash up my dog and decide on the walk what the
first line I'm going to write will be when I get back home.
So I might not believe in writer's block, but I do believe in writer's evasion. I believe in writer's difficulty and
writer's procrastination and writer's I-wonder-if-there's-any-donuts-left?-I-should-go-check.
A writing GPS can certainly help lubricate the start, as we've discussed. But at some point you just have to start
writing.
In a piece in the New Yorker, John McPhee suggests the trick of typing Dear Mother to neuter the fear of the
blank page.3 You could do that, or adapt it to Dear Dad, Hi hon, or Hey you.
If you're a marketing or business writer, you can adapt that approach by thinking of your favorite customer—and
not some nameless, faceless market segment. Keep a real person you either know or you can imagine knowing
in mind. Someone you like, too, because you want to help this person.
McPhee's trick is also handy to use as a general approach, because it requires you to picture the reader on the
receiving end of your writing as someone you know personally. Doing that helps relax your writing voice into
sounding natural and loose and accessible.
In other words, by framing your writing as a conversation with someone specific, you become more…well,
conversational.

-- 75 of 360 --

Notes
1. Chip Scanlon, “Being Blocked Is Part of the Process,” Poynter, March 2, 2011, www.poynter.org/how-
tos/newsgathering-storytelling/chip-on-your-shoulder/21037/being-blocked-is-part-of-the-process/.
2. Colin Nissan, “The Ultimate Guide to Writing Better Than You Normally Do,” Timothy McSweeney's Internet
Tendency (McSweeneys.net), April 10, 2012, www.mcsweeneys.net/articles/the-ultimate-guide-to-writing-
better-than-you-normally-do.
3. John McPhee, “Draft No. 4,” New Yorker, April 29, 2013.

-- 76 of 360 --



-- 77 of 360 --

15
If You Take a Running Start, Cover Your Tracks
At the beginning of a piece, many of us take too long to delve into the topic. We offer too much setup and
background. In other words, we take a metaphorical running start on the page—before getting to the real
starting point.
It's a great way to warm up to a topic, and I do it all the time. But in most cases I go back and erase the running
start, covering my tracks completely and getting to the key point more directly.
One of my professors in college used to routinely lop off the first paragraph or two from our essays. Usually that
barely affected the meaning—but greatly improved that first impression I talk about elsewhere here.
Try it with the next piece you write: Can you trim the start, or lop it off completely? Does doing that help the
reader get into the heart of things more quickly?
Take a look at an example from MarketingProfs. Here are the unedited first few paragraphs of a submission we
received recently about using YouTube to market a business:
Simultaneous to the modern boom of Web 2.0 and along with the rise of social media, companies have
projected their presence by utilizing social media giants (e.g., Facebook and Twitter) in attempts to market
their businesses.
And while companies have seen much success in tapping the vein of reaching the masses through the few
quintessential social networks, only a fraction have explored the option of YouTube marketing.
Let's take a look at the facts.
YouTube is not only the second largest search engine, but also the third most visited website in the world,
only behind Google and Facebook. It receives over 1 billion unique monthly visitors and has about 6 billion
hours of videos watched each month. Let that sink in.
Almost that entire first paragraph can be sliced off the top without losing much context. Doing so gets into the
point of the piece more quickly and clearly, and with brevity. This is the same piece, post-editing:
Though many companies have succeeded in reaching their audiences via social networks such as Facebook
and Twitter, only a fraction have explored the option of marketing via YouTube.
Yet, YouTube is not only the second-largest search engine but also the third most-visited website in the
world, only behind Google and Facebook. It receives over 1 billion unique monthly visitors, and it has
about 6 billion hours of videos watched each month.
Let those numbers sink in for a minute…
And here's another from Salon. These are the first two paragraphs of an article that ran Memorial Day weekend
in 2014:

-- 78 of 360 --

With Memorial Day weekend, we finally have the traditional, though not technical, beginning of summer.
(Given 2014 weather patterns, however, we will probably get at least 10 more Weather Channel-christened
“Snowstorm Frodo” blizzards by July 4. How about that weather, eh?) But anyway. Memorial Day
weekend is another great opportunity for the whole family to gather at a beach house or, if traffic's
unmanageable, a makeshift interstate-median campsite. Or maybe you will be alone? Don't feel bad. Being
alone during one of the year's most fun three-day weekends can be…good?
So, you're at the barbecue, or the fake Disneyland picnic table, and everyone's having a good time noshing
on cheeseburgers or chicken things or other meats or quinoa. Uncle Dingo's talking about his kids' (your
cousins') mediocre peewee baseball performance this spring, and then that leads to discussion of the
current Major League Baseball standings, maybe that leads to some light chatter about the weather, the
accuracy of Thomas Piketty's data integration, the price of beans, etc. And then right when Cousin
Tombert, who just graduated college with a B.A. in medieval poetry gender roles and is about to start a job
leading the complex derivative trading desk at a Greenwich-based hedge fund, is walking out with Cool
Whip and those poor-man's strawberry shortcake shells that the grocery stores sell in six-packs, Uncle
Dingo, out of nowhere, goes, “…well, what do you expect, in a world where President Hussein Obama
thinks he doesn't need Congress anymore.1
Author Jim Newell is a good writer—and the style of the piece is breezy, intentionally meandering, and funny.
But still Jim could've easily lopped off that first paragraph for a quicker start.

-- 79 of 360 --

Note
1. Jim Newell, “How to Win Memorial Day: A Holiday Guide to Arguing with Right-Wing Relatives,” Salon, May
26, 2014,
www.salon.com/2014/05/26/how_to_win_memorial_day_a_holiday_guide_to_arguing_with_right_wing_re

-- 80 of 360 --

