

-- 1 of 498 --

A CoAChing Method
Writing and
Reporting
News
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 2 of 498 --

From the Cengage Series in Mass Communication and Journalism
General Mass Communication
Biagi, Media/Impact: An Introduction to Mass Media, Eleventh Edition
Fellow, American Media History, Third Edition
Hilmes, Only Connect: A Cultural History of Broadcasting in the United States, Fourth Edition
Lester, Visual Communication: Images with Messages, Sixth Edition
Overbeck, Major Principles of Media Law, 2015 Edition
Straubhaar/LaRose/Davenport, Media Now: Understanding Media, Culture, and Technology,
Ninth Edition
Zelezny, Cases in Communications Law, Sixth Edition
Zelezny, Communications Law: Liberties, Restraints, and the Modern Media, Sixth Edition
Journalism
Bowles/Borden, Creative Editing, Sixth Edition
Davis/Davis, Think Like an Editor: 50 Strategies for the Print and Digital World, Second Edition
Hilliard, Writing for Television, Radio, and New Media, Eleventh Edition
Kessler/McDonald, When Words Collide: A Media Writer’s Guide to Grammar and Style,
Eighth Edition
Kessler/McDonald, Cengage Advantage Books: When Words Collide: A Media Writer’s Guide
to Grammar and Style + Exercise Book, Eighth Edition
Rich, Writing and Reporting News: A Coaching Method, Eighth Edition
Public Relations and Advertising
Diggs-Brown, Cengage Advantage Books: Strategic Public Relations: Audience Focused Approach
Diggs-Brown, The PR Styleguide: Formats for Public Relations Practice, Third Edition
Drewniany/Jewler, Creative Strategy in Advertising, Eleventh Edition
Hendrix, Public Relations Cases, Ninth Edition
Newsom/Haynes, Public Relations Writing: Form and Style, Tenth Edition
Newsom/Turk/Kruckeberg, Cengage Advantage Books: This is PR: The Realities of Public
Relations, Eleventh Edition
Sivulka, Soap, Sex, and Cigarettes: A Cultural History of American Advertising, Second Edition
Research and Theory
Baran and Davis, Mass Communication Theory: Foundations, Ferment, and Future, Seventh Edition
Sparks, Media Effects Research: A Basic Overview, Fifth Edition
Wimmer and Dominick, Mass Media Research: An Introduction, Tenth Edition
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 3 of 498 --

Carole riCh
A CoAChing Method
eight
h edition
Australia ● Brazil ● Mexico ● Singapore ● United Kingdom ● United States
Writing and
Reporting
News
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 4 of 498 --

This is an electronic version of the print textbook. Due to electronic rights restrictions,
some third party content may be suppressed. Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed
content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. The publisher reserves the right
to remove content from this title at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it. For
valuable information on pricing, previous editions, changes to current editions, and alternate
formats, please visit www.cengage.com/highered to search by ISBN#, author, title, or keyword for
materials in your areas of interest.

-- 5 of 498 --

© 2016, 2013, 2010 Cengage Learning
WCN: 02-200-203
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No part of this work covered by the copyright
herein may be reproduced, transmitted, stored, or used in any form
or by any means graphic, electronic, or mechanical, including but
not limited to photocopying, recording, scanning, digitizing, taping,
web distribution, information networks, or information storage and
retrieval systems, except as permitted under Section 107 or 108 of the
1976 United States Copyright Act, without the prior written permission
of the publisher.
Library of Congress Control Number: 2014943035
Student Edition:
ISBN: 978-1-305-07733-1
Cengage Learning
20 Channel Center Street
Boston, MA 02210
USA
Cengage Learning is a leading provider of customized learning solutions
with office locations around the globe, including Singapore, the United
Kingdom, Australia, Mexico, Brazil, and Japan. Locate your local office at
www.cengage.com/global.
Cengage Learning products are represented in Canada by
Nelson Education, Ltd.
To learn more about Cengage Learning Solutions, visit
www.cengage.com. Purchase any of our products at your
local college store or at our preferred online store
www.cengagebrain.com.
Writing and Reporting News: A Coaching
Method, Eighth Edition
Carole Rich
Product Director: Monica Eckman
Product Manager: Kelli Strieby
Managing Content Developer:
Megan Garvey
Associate Content Developer:
Rachel Schowalter
Media Developer: Janine Tangney
Marketing Manager: Jillian Borden
Content Project Manager: Dan Saabye
Art Director: Marissa Falco
Manufacturing Planner: Doug Bertke
IP Analyst: Ann Hoffman
IP Project Manager: Farah Fard
Production Service: MPS Limited
Compositor: MPS Limited
Text Designer: Anne Bell Carter, a bell
design company
Cover Designer: Studio Wink
Cover Image: Tim Brakemeier/dpa/Corbis
For product information and technology assistance, contact us at
Cengage Learning Customer & Sales Support, 1-800-354-9706
For permission to use material from this text or product,
submit all requests online at www.cengage.com/permissions.
Further permissions questions can be emailed to
permissionrequest@cengage.com.
Printed in Canada
Print Number: 01 	Print Year: 2014
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 6 of 498 --

v
Brief Contents
Part One Understanding news
1 	Changing Concepts of News 	1
2 	The Basic News Story 	20
3 	Social Media 	44
Part twO Collecting Information
4 	Sources and Online Research 	57
5 	Interviewing Techniques 	75
6 	Mobile and Multimedia Skills 	97
Part three Constructing Stories
7 	Leads and Nut Graphs 	110
8 	Story Organization 	139
9 	Story Forms 	160
10 	Storytelling and Feature Techniques 	178
11 	Broadcast News Writing 	200
12 	Online Journalism 	227
13 	Public Relations Writing 	246
Part FOUr Understanding Media Issues
14 	Media Law 	267
15 	Media Ethics 	287
16 	Multicultural Sensitivity 	304
Part FIve applying the techniques
17 	Profiles and Obituaries 	322
18 	Speeches, News Conferences and Meetings 	343
19 	Government and Statistical Stories 	358
20 	Crime and Punishment 	378
21 	Disasters, Weather and Tragedies 	406
22 	Media Jobs and Internships 	428
Appendix: Grammar and Usage 	448
Glossary 	463
Index 	471
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 7 of 498 --

Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 8 of 498 --

Contents
vii
Preface 	xi
Acknowledgments 	xiv
About the Author 	xv
pArt one
Understanding
news
1 	Changing Concepts
of news 	1
Media Convergence 	3
Changing Delivery of News 	3
SoCiAl MediA 4
Citizen Journalism 	5
Economic Changes in Media 	6
Changes in Online News 	7
Changing Values 	8
Objectivity 	8
ethiCS 9
Qualities of News 	9
MUltiMediA CoACh 15
The Importance of Visuals 	16
The Coaching Method 	18
Exercises 	19
Featured Online Activities 	19
2 	the Basic news Story 	20
Finding the Focus 	21
Basic Questions 	22
Elements of the Basic News Story 	23
MUltiMediA CoACh 30
SoCiAl MediA 33
Example of Basic News Story 	34
ethiCS 35
Quotes and Attribution 	35
Exercises 	41
Featured Online Activities 	43
3 	Social Media 	44
Defining Social Media 	45
Reporting with Social Media 	46
Facebook 	47
Twitter 	47
Verifying Social Media 	49
Curation 	49
MUltiMediA CoACh 50
Blogs 	50
Podcasts 	53
ethiCS 54
SoCiAl MediA 55
Exercises 	56
Featured Online Activities 	56
pArt tWo
Collecting information
4 	Sources and online
research 	57
Human Sources 	59
Data Sources 	60
SoCiAl MediA 62
Anonymous Sources 	62
ethiCS 64
Multicultural Sources 	66
Written Sources 	67
Online Sources 	68
MUltiMediA CoACh 69
Public Records 	70
The Freedom of Information Act 	72
Exercises 	73
Featured Online Activities 	74
5 	interviewing techniques 	75
Observation 	77
Gathering Details 	80
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 9 of 498 --

viii 	ContentS
Sensitivity 	80
Pros and Cons of Digital Recorders/
Videotape 	81
Listening Tips 	82
Note-Taking Tips 	83
SoCiAl MediA 85
Interviewing Tips 	85
MUltiMediA CoACh 92
Email Interviews 	92
ethiCS 93
Telephone Interviewing 	94
Common Interviewing Problems 	95
Exercises 	95
Featured Online Activities 	96
6 	Mobile and Multimedia
Skills 	97
Multi-Platform Consumers 	99
Mobile Reporting 	99
ethiCS 100
Writing for Mobile Media 	101
Multimedia and Convergence 	102
Multimedia Innovation 	102
SoCiAl MediA 103
Multimedia Planning 	104
Writing for Multimedia 	104
MUltiMediA CoACh 105
Exercises 	108
Featured Online Activities 	109
pArt three
Constructing Stories
7 	leads and nut graphs 	110
Types of Leads 	111
Hard-News Leads 	112
SoCiAl MediA 119
Soft Leads 	123
MUltiMediA CoACh 124
ethiCS 124
Reminders: Tips for Finding Your
Lead 	135
Exercises 	136
Featured Online Activities 	138
8 	Story organization 	139
Stages of the Writing Process 	140
SoCiAl MediA 143
ethiCS 143
Organizational Techniques 	143
MUltiMediA CoACh 149
Making Middles Move 	149
Endings 	154
Exercises 	159
Featured Online Activities 	159
9 	Story Forms 	160
Story Structures 	162
Inverted Pyramid 	162
The Wall Street Journal Formula 	163
MUltiMediA CoACh 167
Hourglass Structure 	167
SoCiAl MediA 169
List Technique 	169
Question/Answer Format 	170
ethiCS 171
Sections Technique 	172
Exercises 	175
Featured Online Activities 	177
10 Storytelling and Feature
techniques 	178
Narrative Writing 	180
Reading to Write 	182
Reporting Tools 	182
Writing Tools 	183
MUltiMediA CoACh 191
SoCiAl MediA 193
Storytelling Structure 	193
ethiCS 195
Serial Narratives 	197
Exercises 	198
Featured Online Activities 	199
11 Broadcast news Writing 	200
Producing a Newscast 	201
MUltiMediA CoACh 206
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 10 of 498 --

ContentS 	ix
Writing Tips 	206
Broadcast Writing Style 	207
Teasers and Lead-Ins 	210
ethiCS 211
SoCiAl MediA 214
Writing for Radio 	214
Broadcast Style 	216
Story Structure 	217
Revising Stories 	223
Glossary 	223
Exercises 	225
Featured Online Activities 	226
12 online Journalism 	227
Digital First Media 	229
Qualities of Online News 	230
Online Readers 	231
ethiCS 232
Story Planning 	233
Reporting for the Web 	234
Anatomy of a News Story
on the Web 	235
Writing Techniques 	236
MUltiMediA CoACh 237
SoCiAl MediA 238
Headlines, Summary Blurbs
and Briefs 	239
Story Structure 	241
Personal Storytelling 	243
Revise 	244
Exercises 	244
Featured Online Activities 	245
13 public relations Writing 	246
Changes in Public Relations 	248
MUltiMediA CoACh 249
Writing Skills for Press Releases 	250
ethiCS 251
Email Press Releases 	251
SoCiAl MediA 252
Structure of Press Releases 	253
Video Press Releases 	258
Public Service Announcements 	261
Multicultural Awareness 	262
Media Kits 	263
Job Skills — Advice from the Pros 	264
Exercises 	265
Featured Online Activities 	266
pArt FoUr
Understanding Media issues
14 Media law 	267
Libel 	269
The Importance of Accuracy 	274
ethiCS 278
Invasion of Privacy 	278
Online Legal Issues 	280
SoCiAl MediA 282
Copyright 	283
MUltiMediA CoACh 284
Exercises 	285
Featured Online Activities 	286
15 Media ethics 	287
SoCiAl MediA 290
Conflicts of Interest 	291
Deception 	293
Plagiarism 	293
Privacy Issues 	294
MUltiMediA CoACh 301
Ethical Reasoning 	301
ethiCS 302
Codes of Ethics 	303
Exercises 	303
Featured Online Activities 	303
16 Multicultural Sensitivity 	304
The Language of Multiculturalism 	306
ethiCS 310
Minorities in the News 	311
SoCiAl MediA 312
Gender Differences 	313
MUltiMediA CoACh 314
Guidelines for Writing About Special
Groups 	314
Exercises 	320
Featured Online Activities 	321
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 11 of 498 --

x 	ContentS
pArt FiVe
Applying the techniques
17 profiles and obituaries 	322
Turning Points 	325
The Goal Method 	325
proFile plAnning tipS 326
Basic Elements of Profiles 	327
Micro Profile 	329
Snapshot Profiles 	330
Organizing the Profile 	331
MUltiMediA CoACh 332
ethiCS 334
Obituaries 	334
SoCiAl MediA 335
Exercises 	341
Featured Online Activities 	342
18 Speeches, news Conferences
and Meetings 	343
ethiCS 346
Stories About Meetings 	346
SoCiAl MediA 351
Stories About Speeches 	351
MUltiMediA CoACh 354
Stories About News Conferences 	354
Exercises 	357
Featured Online Activities 	357
19 government and Statistical
Stories 	358
MUltiMediA CoACh 360
Reporting Tips 	361
Visuals 	362
ethiCS 363
Writing Tips 	364
SoCiAl MediA 369
Statistical Stories 	369
Budget Stories 	371
Exercises 	377
Featured Online Activities 	377
20 Crime and punishment 	378
Crime Stories 	380
SoCiAl MediA 386
ethiCS 391
Court Stories 	394
MUltiMediA CoACh 395
Federal Courts and State Courts 	395
Exercises 	403
Featured Online Activities 	405
21 disasters, Weather and
tragedies 	406
Changing Challenges of Covering
Tragedy 	409
SoCiAl MediA 412
ethiCS 413
Reporting Techniques 	414
MUltiMediA CoACh 418
Airplane Crashes 	421
Natural Disasters 	422
Weather Stories 	425
Exercises 	427
Featured Online Activities 	427
22 Media Jobs and
internships 	428
Finding Jobs and Internships 	430
Applying for a Job or Internship 	432
SoCiAl MediA 434
Writing Cover Letters 	435
ethiCS 439
Online Application Examples 439
Résumés 	440
MUltiMediA CoACh 442
Online Portfolios 	444
Interviews 	444
Exercises 	447
Featured Online Activities 	447
Appendix: Grammar and Usage 	448
Glossary 	463
Index 	471
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 12 of 498 --

xi
Preface
It’s an exciting time to be studying journalism. “In my view the future of journalism can
and will be better than its past,” according to Richard Gingras, senior director of news
and social products at Google. “I believe we are at the beginnings of a renaissance in the
exploration and re-invention of how news is gathered, expressed, and engaged with.
The media landscape is in the process of being completely transformed, tossed upside
down; reinvented and restructured in ways we know, and in ways we do not yet know.”
Although the development and delivery of news will continue to change, some
journalism skills remain essential. This book teaches the basic skills of journalism as
well as the skills for producing social and mobile media for digital delivery.
As in previous editions, the coaching concepts of this book are designed to help
students acquire the writing and reporting skills they will need no matter which media
field they choose to enter. The book also includes breakout boxes of social media, ethics
and multimedia in every chapter. The chapters are written in a storytelling style to
make learning a pleasant reading experience.
neW MAteriAl in thiS edition
This eighth edition of Writing and Reporting News: A Coaching Method has been
revised to include more social media, multimedia and mobile media skills in every
chapter. All chapters have been updated, more photos have been added and the fol-
lowing new sections have been added:
Chapter 1: Changing Concepts of News offers a new section on objectivity vs.
neutrality.
Chapter 2: The Basic News Story contains a new section on objectivity and a
new example of the basic news story.
Chapter 3: Social Media (was Chapter 4 in 7th edition) now includes new sec-
tions on verifying social media, curation, and a social media glossary.
Chapter 4: Sources and Online Research (was Chapter 5 in 7th edition) includes
a new section on data sources.
Chapter 5: Interviewing Techniques (was Chapter 6 in 7th edition.) includes
new information about the controversy in colleges over email interviews.
Chapter 6: Mobile and Multimedia Skills (was Chapter 3 in 7th edition.) is a
major rewrite with expanded information on mobile media, new sections about
multiplatform consumers, and multimedia innovation.
Chapter 9: Story Forms features a new lead focusing on the Denver Post Pulitzer
Prize about the Aurora, Colorado, movie theater shooting and includes a new
example for the question/answer story form.
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 13 of 498 --

xii 	preFACe
Chapter 11: Broadcast News Writing features a new section on VOs and VOSOTs
(voice-overs).
Chapter 12: Online Journalism offers another major rewrite with new examples
from prize-winning college websites and a new section on digital first media.
Chapter 15: Media Ethics includes a new section on conflicts of interest.
Chapter 16: Multicultural Sensitivity features an expanded section on the
Language of Multiculturalism with a new section on gender-neutral language.
Chapter 17: Profiles and Obituaries includes a new section on micro profiles (also
called Twitter profiles).
Chapter 18: Speeches, News Conferences and Meetings includes a new lead and
new examples.
Chapter 21: Disasters, Weather and Tragedies features new sections on the
Boston Marathon bombing, Deadline Dangers, the Sandy Hook Elementary
School tragedy and the role of social media in these tragedies.
Chapter 22: Media Jobs and Internships includes updated information using
Twitter and social media and a new section on online portfolios.
For the first time a Glossary offers an alphabetical list of key journalism terms
in the book. Also the inside back cover offers a quick Glossary-at-a-Glance, which
features selected key journalism terms and social media terms.
hoW the BooK iS orgAniZed
Although this textbook is arranged sequentially to take students through the steps
from conceiving ideas to constructing stories, each chapter is self-contained so the
chapters may be used in any order. While some material has moved to other chapters,
the basic structure of the book has been retained:
Part 1: Understanding News: Part One contains chapters that explain changes in
the media, the basics of a news story and the impact of social media on how we read and
write news. This part will give students a greater understanding of the course they are
about to take.
Part 2: Collecting Information: The three chapters in Part Two outline ways
to collect the necessary information to write a story. Information includes types of
sources available, online research, interviewing techniques and mobile and multime-
dia skills.
Part 3: Constructing Stories: Part Three covers tools to create stories in a variety
of media. From writing leads to organizing stories, this section features techniques to
help students whether they plan to pursue careers in print, broadcast, online media or
in public relations.
Part 4: Understanding Media Issues: The chapters in Part Four discuss legal and
ethical issues critical to understanding media today. The chapter on multicultural sensi-
tivity covers topics that are more relevant and important now than ever before.
Part 5: Applying the Techniques: The chapters in Part Five apply techniques
taught in the rest of the book to specific types of stories, from speeches to crimes and
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 14 of 498 --

preFACe 	xiii
disasters. This section also features a chapter that teaches students how to apply for
jobs by crafting cover letters and resumes in print and online formats.
AlSo AVAilABle digitAllY
MindTap for Journalism, offering the ultimate personal learning experience, is now
available with Writing and Reporting News: A Coaching Method, Eighth Edition. Fully
integrated into one seamless experience, MindTap combines readings, multimedia,
activities, and assessments into a singular learning path—guiding students through
the course, maximizing study time and helping them master course concepts. Instructors
can personalize the learning path by customizing Cengage Learning resources and
adding their own content via apps that integrate into the MindTap framework with any
learning management system. Also included within MindTap for this edition:
Learning Objectives help students understand what they will learn in each
chapter.
Getting Started Activities engage students at the start of each part, motivating
them to learn and collaborate via forums, voting and polling questions, and
more.
Workbook Activities reworked from the workbook that has always been offered,
are integrated into chapter readings to help students practice as they learn.
Chapter Quizzes help to gauge student understanding of the concepts in the
chapter.
NewsScene Assignments based on realistic news events. Assignments offer
extensive source material, including videotaped interviews, telephone messages,
official documents and database information, which helps students sharpen
their writing skills for print, broadcast and online media.
To learn more, ask your Cengage Learning sales representative to demo MindTap for
you—or visit www.cengage.com/mindtap.
SUppleMentS
The Instructor’s Companion Website is an all-in-one resource for class preparation
and presentation for instructors. Accessible through Cengage.com/login with your fac-
ulty account, you will find the latest revision of the Instructor’s Manual (description
below), as well as a list of helpful weblinks that can be used to broaden students’ learn-
ing experiences.
The Instructor’s Resource Manual contains chapter-specific goals, teaching sug-
gestions and answers to the textbook and workbook exercises. It has been revamped to
include not only the News Scene IM, but also to also help instructors teach through the
MindTap. The Resource Manual also includes examples of original stories. Because the
Instructor’s Resource Manual is an electronic document, the file is available for download
at the Instructor’s Companion Website, at login.cengage.com.
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 15 of 498 --

xiv 	preFACe
The Student Workbook, which will be available as a print-on-demand request for
this edition, features several exercises in each chapter to reinforce the concepts taught in
Writing and Reporting News, Eighth Edition. These include quizzes, exercises designed to
give students more opportunities to improve their reporting and writing skills, and exer-
cises designed to encourage critical thinking by asking students to critique news stories
and analyze websites. This edition of the workbook also includes practice in using social
media skills. Please contact your local sales representative to request the workbook for
your students.
ACKnoWledgMentS
I would like to thank many people at Cengage Learning who made the eighth edition of
this textbook possible. They include: Kelli Strieby, Product Manager in the Humanities
Division; Megan Garvey, Managing Content Developer; Rachel Schowalter, Associate
Content Developer; Janine Tangney, Media Developer; Dan Saabye, Content Project
Manager; Jillian Borden, Marketing Manager; Charu Khanna, MPS Project Manager
and Heather Mann, proofreader.
I would also like to thank the reviewers, who contributed their time and advice
for this edition:
Kwadwo Anokwa, from Butler University; Debra Tobin from The University of
North Carolina at Charlotte; Richard Gaspar from Hillsborough Community College –
Ybor City Campus; Huntly Collins from LaSalle University; Tina Lesher from William
Patterson University; Carolyn Barta from Southern Methodist University; and Joshua
Azriel from Kennesaw State University.
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 16 of 498 --

xv
About the Author
Carole Rich has spent 25 years teaching journalism at four universi-
ties and coaching professional writers throughout the U.S. She has
taught at the University of Alaska Anchorage and has served as chair
of the journalism department at Hofstra University in Long Island,
N.Y. She began her teaching career at the University of Arizona in
1985 and then taught journalism at the University of Kansas from
1987 to 1998 when she was hired as the distinguished Atwood pro-
fessor in Alaska. Prior to becoming a professor, she worked for
16 years in the newspaper industry. She was a reporter for the former
Philadelphia Evening Bulletin, city editor of the Sun-Sentinel in Fort
Lauderdale, Florida, and deputy metropolitan editor of the Hartford
(Connecticut) Courant.
Rich has been a visiting writing coach at newspapers throughout
the U.S. and has conducted many writing seminars at journalism or-
ganizations, including a seminar for professional journalists in Spain.
She is also the author of Creating Online Media: A Guide to Research,
Writing and Design on the Internet, published by McGraw-Hill.
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 17 of 498 --

Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 18 of 498 --

1
© archidea/Shutterstock.com
We are very bullish on the future of high-quality
journalism. . . . The distribution models are
changing and the players producing certain forms
of journalism are going to change. But it happens to
be the most exciting time in journalism.
—Martin t. Moe, Senior Vice President, AOL Media
Chapter 1
Changing
Concepts
of News
CoaChing Tips
Consider ways to present
your story for print,
broadcast, mobile and online
media.
Ask yourself how your story
affects your readers.
Consider whether your
story needs a photograph,
graphic, audio or video.
Plan to update your story
for online delivery.
Use social media sites to
connect with readers and
viewers.
part 1 	UNdersTaNdiNg NeWs
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 19 of 498 --

2	PART 1 	Understanding neWs
It’s shortly after 1 a.m., and the police officer’s patrol is
uneventful, except for the man carrying a 5-inch-long rat on his shoulder.
No crime; it was just a man who bought a rat at a pet store. At 5:42 a.m. a young
mother wakes to the cries of her hungry 10-month-old daughter. At noon a homeless
woman with a canister of pepper spray in her bra waits for lunch at the local soup
kitchen, and as midnight approaches, three fraternity members celebrate the last day
of classes by climbing on the merry-go-round at a shopping mall.
These are just a few of the stories and photographs that chronicle one day in the
life of residents in Lawrence, Kansas. The project could be done in any community.
When the Lawrence (Kansas) Journal-World tackled the subject, it created a “multi-
media time capsule” by producing the story in the newspaper, on television and on its
website with text, photos, audio and video.
That’s not unusual these days. Almost every news organization has
done a 24-hour story, but what made this different was the participation
from the community. In addition to reporting by reporters and photogra-
phers of the newspaper and its partner TV station, residents participated
by sending in stories about their day in various forms: podcasts, blogs,
video, photos and text messages via email.
This project was one of several innovative methods the Lawrence
Journal-World has produced to interact with its readers and viewers in
multimedia forms. And it is an example of how the nature of news is
changing.
Readers are participating much more in producing and reacting to
news through social media sites such as Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and
others. Mobile media and tablet computers are also affecting how news
is delivered.
“Americans are now fully into the digital era,” according to a study by
the Pew Project for Excellence in Journalism. More than three-quarters
of U.S. adults own a laptop or desktop computer, and 56 percent own	
Courtesy of
 Lawrence Journal-World
Courtesy of
 Lawrence Journal-World
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 20 of 498 --

3	CHAPTER 1 	Changing ConCepts of news
smartphones, according to the study. “News is a significant part of how people use
these devices. . . . A mounting body of evidence finds that the spread of mobile
technology is adding to news consumption.”
Readers and viewers don’t just receive news; they help collect and create it. They
get the news when, how and where they want it on computers, mobile phones, tablet
devices or social media networks. They contribute to traditional media outlets with
news tips, story ideas and eyewitness reports in text, video and photos via Twitter,
Facebook, Instagram, YouTube and other social media sites.
Definitions of news are also evolving, and economic factors such as mergers of
media companies have changed the landscape of the news industry.
Declining newspaper circulation, increased competition from cable television news
stations and access to millions of sites on the Internet are forcing news organizations to
expand ways to interest readers and viewers. The days of writing for a single medium
have ended at most news, public relations and advertising organizations.
media convergence
Many of the skills you need to become a journalist are still grounded in basic report-
ing and writing principles, but in today’s market you need to know how to present
information for print, broadcast and online media. This mixture of media is called
“convergence,” “multimedia,” “integrated media” and other terms.
In some types of convergence, a print news organization partners with a broadcast
station to collaborate on a story. In other newsrooms the print and broadcast facilities
are in the same building where journalists coordinate news coverage. Convergence
can also be considered the merger of print, audio, video and interactive elements in
an online form.
The Lawrence Journal-World was one of the first news organizations in the U.S.
to converge its print, broadcast and online operations, which are housed in a 1906
brick building that belies the modern newsroom inside. In 2001, owner and publisher
Dolph C. Simons converted a vacant post office on the National Register of Historic
Places into a newsroom featuring a circular multimedia desk where editors coordi-
nate information from print, broadcast and online media reporters. “We want to stay
abreast of new developments and be able to deliver news and advertising, as well as
other information, however a reader or advertiser might desire,” Simons said.
These days many newsrooms at universities and news organizations all over the
world have been reorganized to foster convergence of multimedia on a variety of
platforms.
changing delivery of neWs
The increasing popularity of smartphones and tablet computers like the iPad is creat-
ing new venues for news companies to deliver their products. Mobile news delivery
is the fastest growing trend for the media industry.
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 21 of 498 --

4	PART 1 	Understanding neWs
USA Today has completely restructured its newsroom to take advantage of dis-
tributing news on mobile and tablet platforms. The company disbanded its universal
desk and reorganized the newsroom around 15 content areas such as travel, personal
finance, technology and subjects that are geared to the audience and technology of
mobile and tablet media.
These changes in technology have spawned an alphabet soup of terms related to
forms of delivering news. Here are some common terms:
■■ Blogs: The term blog is short for “Web log” because blogs are posted on the
Web. A blog can be a personal journal or brief commentary about any topic
and can include audio or video.
■■ Podcast: This is digital media information in audio or video form distributed
over the Internet for use on a portable media player such as an iPod, an instru-
ment developed by Apple Inc., or an MP3 player. Pod is an abbreviation for
“portable on demand.” You don’t need an iPod to hear or view a podcast; you
can receive it on your computer with the use of software.
S o c i a l M e d i a
social
netWorking has
transformed the media,
according to Clay Shirky,
a New York University
professor who is considered
an expert in this field. “We are living in the middle
of the largest increase in expressive capability in
the history of the human race,” he wrote in his
book Here Comes Everybody. “More people can
communicate more things to more people than
has ever been possible in the past, and the size
and speed of this increase, from under one million
participants to over one billion in a generation,
makes the change unprecedented, even
considered against the background of previous
revolutions in communications tools.”
Here are a few of the ways social media
sites are changing journalism:
■■ new job positions: News organiza-
tions are hiring social media editors. They
interact with their communities on sites such
as Twitter and Facebook, train journalists in
their newsrooms to use social media, and
maintain and contribute blogs or tweets to
company sites.
■■ reporting: Journalists are using social
media to gain tips and sources and to
communicate with readers and viewers,
especially during a breaking news event.
Many government and community orga-
nizations and corporate communications
agencies also post information on social
media sites that reporters can follow to
gain information.
■■ Participation by readers and
viewers: News organizations are solicit-
ing information from subscribers to their
websites and social media sites for break-
ing news, eyewitness reports and feedback
about stories and issues. And social media
users share information about the news with
each other, creating new types of communi-
ties. “The public is clearly part of the news
process now. Participation comes more
through sharing than through contributing
news themselves,” according to a report by
the Pew Internet and American Life Project.
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 22 of 498 --

5	CHAPTER 1 	Changing ConCepts of news
■■ RSS: These letters stand for “Really Simple Syndication,” which is probably
simpler to use than to define. If you want to receive certain blogs or podcasts
regularly, you can subscribe to a site using a Web feed reader called an “aggre-
gator” that will compile them and deliver them to you. You insert a link to the
site into the aggregator software. Search engines such as Google or Yahoo!
offer to deliver automatic updates of news via RSS feeds. These feeds, delivered
to your account, contain headlines, summaries and links to the articles.
■■ aggregator: This is software that compiles or collects certain websites that you
want delivered to you regularly and pushes them to you via email or automati-
cally downloads them for you into a portable media player. The aggregator is
also known as a feed reader because it “reads” the sites it will “feed” to you. It
checks them for new material and downloads updates to your account for easy
access on your computer or portable media device.
■■ Social media: News organizations are using social networks such as Facebook,
Twitter, YouTube, Tumblr and others to connect with readers and viewers. Social
media is electronic communication where users share information, ideas, mes-
sages, audio and video content on websites designed to create online communities.
citiZen JoUrnalism
The concept of involving readers and viewers in reporting and disseminating news
is called “citizen journalism,” “participatory journalism” or “user-generated-content.”
The movement is an attempt by media organizations to increase their interaction
with their audience. The contributors are often called “citizen journalists” because
they are not staff members of the news organization, even though they may write
blogs on a regular basis for the media website. Social media contributors sometimes
perform the same functions.
Many of the citizen journalism sites are considered hyperlocal, providing local
news and information for a neighborhood or small community within a larger
area such as The Oakland Local (oaklandlocal.com). The Twin Cities Daily Planet
(www.tcdailyplanet.net) is a successful hyperlocal site covering neighborhoods in the
Minneapolis/St. Paul, Minnesota, area. The site has 100 media partners and bloggers.
A pioneer in the user-generated-content movement is a South Korean website
called OhmyNews International. Oh Yeon-ho, creator of the site, said his motto
is “Every citizen is a reporter all over the world.” Since its inception in 2000 with
727 citizen reporters, the organization has grown to more than 62,000 contributors,
with 70 full-time editors and reporters. The focus of the organization has changed to
report more about citizen journalism than world news.
Courtesy of OhmyNews International
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 23 of 498 --

6	PART 1 	Understanding neWs
This is how the company describes itself
and its focus on citizen journalism: “We are
a small team based at OhmyNews in Seoul,
South Korea. We are international journalists.
We know technology, and we are curious about
the global progress of citizen journalism. And
we adore coffee always. Grassroots journalism,
citizen media, [and] crowdsourcing are all
related terms that tackle the same question:
How are regular people making and changing
the news?”
economic changes
in media
The changing face of the media isn’t just in the content and delivery of news; it is in
the ownership of the largest media organizations. Economic forces created significant
changes in major media companies at the start of the 21st century. Newspaper cir-
culation was declining, and the large media companies listed on the stock exchange
were under pressure because of sagging stock profits for their shareholders. Print
and broadcast news organizations cut staffs and resources. Two of the largest media
organizations, Knight Ridder Inc. and the Tribune Company, sold their newspapers
and TV stations.
Journalists who got into the business years ago with the idealistic notion that
the primary concern of media companies was content became disillusioned by the
emphasis on economics, and many quit or retired. The times were changing and the
news business was just that — a business that was supposed to make a profit. But
journalists didn’t disappear; many of them formed new online ventures and found
news-related jobs in other publications, businesses, public relations organizations
and government agencies. Good journalism skills have broad application.
partnerships
News organizations that were once fiercely competitive formed partnerships to share
news stories in print and video as a way to cut costs. In South Florida, The Miami
Herald, the South Florida Sun-Sentinel and the Palm Beach Post began sharing stories,
and similar arrangements were created among newspapers in Maine, Ohio and Texas.
The nature of competition has changed.
Partnerships with university journalism departments are another way news organ-
izations are expanding their coverage without expanding their staffs. The New York
Times has a partnership with City University of New York in which journalism students
write blogs to cover communities in Brooklyn and New Jersey; and with New York
University journalism students to cover other communities within the metro area.
OhmyNews founder Oh Yeon Ho in the newsroom in Seoul, Korea.
Erik Moller/Creative Commons
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 24 of 498 --

7	CHAPTER 1 	Changing ConCepts of news
AOL has created a partnership with several universities called “PatchU,” which
offers internships and coursework as well as freelance opportunities at Patch pub-
lications, which are online sites that provide news and information in hundreds of
communities. Students can write stories and cover local events in multimedia form
and integrate social media for the Patch sites.
pay Walls
Would you be willing to pay for online news that you currently can get free? That’s
a dilemma facing news organizations that are seeking ways to pay rising costs for
their online publications. With advertising revenues declining and competition rising
from other websites, news organizations have discussed charging for access to some
or all of their online content. Several news sites have created pay walls, which wall
off, or block access to, certain content. The cost of applications for digital delivery to
smartphones and tablets will also affect the future of charges for online information.
changes in online neWs
The Web has changed the nature of news in other ways:
Continual Deadlines When a news story breaks, reporters at many newspaper
and broadcast organizations are expected to file the story immediately for the Web
and update major stories online throughout the day. Twitter has changed the nature
of breaking news as well. Reporters may tweet updates continually during a major
incident or any breaking news story.
Interactive Content One of the main distinctions of online news is the ability
to interact with readers. Web news stories often feature interactive content such as
polls, chats and questions at the end of stories to prompt readers to express their
views, as well as requests to comment on a news organization’s social media site.
More than ever, writers need to consider how their audience will be affected by the
story, regardless of the medium.
Related Links Online news is accompanied by links to related information, so a
news story may no longer be a single entity. Traditional print and broadcast news
stories also refer readers and viewers to related online information. Social media sites
such as Twitter also feature links to blogs, photos, videos and other media content.
Nonlinear Structure Print and broadcast news stories are written in linear
order — to be read or heard from beginning to end as if in a straight line. Because
the Web features links and multimedia features, it creates a nonlinear environment,
meaning readers may access content in any order they choose. Although many online
news stories are still linear, original Web content is organized in more related pieces.
Instead of one story containing all the information, nonlinear news might be split into
separate parts for background, profiles, timelines, databases and multimedia.
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 25 of 498 --

8	PART 1 	Understanding neWs
Databases Many news sites offer databases that you can search for information
about health, school test scores, or crime statistics in your community. For example,
The Philadelphia Inquirer (www.philly.com) offers an annual report card allowing you
to search a database for public and private schools in Pennsylvania and New Jersey
to find out about school test scores and related facts for schools in these areas. Many
other news sites also offer searchable databases for crime statistics, school test scores
and other community information.
Personalized Journalism In addition to blogs as a form of personalized jour-
nalism, online news sites are reaching out to users by asking them to contribute their
personal stories on the organization’s website or its Facebook or Twitter pages.
changing valUes
Several news organizations, such as the Radio Television Digital News Association,
are developing special ethical codes for social media. With slight adjustments, these
codes mirror the ones that apply to mainstream media. However, a study of execu-
tives from RTDNA and the American Society of Newspaper Editors revealed that
these news leaders have some serious concerns about the effect the Internet and
social networks are having on news values.
The study by the Project for Excellence in Journalism revealed that more than
62 percent of executives from print and 67 percent from broadcast media think accu-
racy is declining due in part to the speed of producing news and to social media.
“I worry that journalistic standards are dropping in that blogging and celebrity
gossip and tweets are being confused with reporting and editing that passes a rig-
orous standard,” one broadcast executive wrote. A newspaper editor concurred and
added, “There is too much emphasis, I believe, on getting information fast even at the
expense of accuracy, thoroughness and fairness.”
oBJectivity
In the past, news reporting was expected to be objective or neutral, meaning that the
story was supposed to be presented as factual and any opinions should be attrib-
uted. Many journalists and ethics experts have argued that objectivity is impossible
because writers bring their acquired biases to reporting and writing; nevertheless,
writers were supposed to try to be neutral in their reporting.
However, in the last few decades, news stories have contained more analysis to
help readers understand the context of stories.
A study by Columbia University professor Michael Scudson and graduate
student Katherine Fink revealed that in 1955, stories about events outnumbered
other types of front-page stories nine to one. “Now, about half of all stories are
something else: a report that tries to explain why, not just what,” they wrote in
their study.
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 26 of 498 --

9	CHAPTER 1 	Changing ConCepts of news
Social media in the form of blogs and contributions from citizen journalists also
affect journalistic impartiality.
QUalities of neWs
Definitions and delivery methods of news are changing. But these are some tradi-
tional qualities of news stories that still apply to print, broadcast and online media:
Timeliness An event that happened the day of or day before publication or an event
that is due to happen in the immediate future is considered timely. In broadcast and
e T H i c S
plagiarism and
faBrication
the case: (This
situation is based on the
case of Jayson Blair, a
former reporter for The
New York Times.) A reporter for your campus
newspaper quickly becomes a star by charm-
ing editors and professors. His stories are filled
with descriptive details and human-interest
features that gain him a reputation as an
outstanding writer. But the editor of the paper
is concerned because several of his stories
require corrections after they are printed, and
the editor can’t trace some of the sources. The
editor and some staffers complain to journal-
ism professors about this reporter’s inaccura-
cies, but the professors dismiss the complaints
as jealousy over this rising star.
The reporter lands a prestigious internship
with a large daily newspaper and later is hired
full time even before he graduates from journal-
ism school. He shows much promise and gets
assigned to major national stories, but during
his four years at the paper his stories require
50 corrections, and one of his editors thinks he
should be fired. However, the top manager at
the newspaper excuses the reporter because he
says that he has had several personal problems.
His trail of deception, plagiarism and
fabrication is uncovered after the newspaper is
notified that he plagiarized a story written by a
reporter at another paper. The story was only
one of at least 36 articles containing plagiarized
or fabricated quotes and facts. The reporter
resigns, and the newspaper publishes an exten-
sive front-page Sunday story explaining the situ-
ation and apologizing to readers.
Dilemma
■■ What steps could have or should have
been taken to prevent this situation from
happening?
■■ Should a reporter be fired as soon as the
first incident of plagiarism or fabrication is
discovered?
■■ Should a reporter whose stories require
numerous corrections be fired?
■■ What would you have done if you were
the campus editor or his editor at that
newspaper?
■■ What can be done to prevent plagiarism and
fabrication in the media?
ethical values: Accuracy, credibility.
ethical guidelines: According to the
code of ethics of the Society of Professional
Journalists, “Seek truth and report it. Test
the accuracy of information from all sources
and exercise care to avoid inadvertent error.
Deliberate distortion is never permissible.”
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 27 of 498 --

10	PART 1 	Understanding neWs
online media, timeliness is considered “immediacy” and is even more crucial. When
stories are posted online immediately after they happen or broadcast several times a
day, you have to consider how to update them frequently. Some events that happened
in the past may also be considered timely if they are printed on an anniversary of the
event, such as one, five or 10 years after the incident. Timeliness answers the reader’s
question: Why are you telling me this now? The following story was timely because it
was published the day after the accident:
A bus loaded with elementary school children crashed head-on into a com-
pact car in southwestern Jefferson County yesterday, injuring 24 students
and the two drivers.
— The (Louisville, Kentucky) Courier-Journal
If that story had been written for broadcast or online media, the angle would have
been updated to report the current condition of the students and drivers.
Proximity An event may be of interest to local readers because it happened in
or close to the community. This story has proximity to people in Scottsdale, Arizona,
where the accident occurred and to readers in Kansas because the victims were from
Kansas State University:
Two Kansas State University football fans who went to Arizona for the Fiesta
Bowl are in the hospital with serious injuries after being hit by a suspected
drunk driver in downtown Scottsdale.
Unusual Nature Out-of-the-ordinary events, a bizarre or rare occurrence, or
people engaged in unusual activities are considered newsworthy, as in this story:
MAN TICKETED FOR WALKING HIS LIZARD
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. — Walking your
dog along the beach here is illegal —
and so is lounging with your lizard, Chris
DeMango found out. Mortimer, DeMango’s
20-pound purple-tongued monitor lizard,
complete with matching pink doll sweater
and leash, was out for exercise Monday.
DeMango said a walk makes Mortimer
more docile, but police said it makes him
an illegal lizard — animals are banned on
the beach. DeMango was ticketed, and his
Monitor lizards are an invasive species in Florida.
T. Campbell/U.S. Geological Survey
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 28 of 498 --

11	CHAPTER 1 	Changing ConCepts of news
lizard law violation could cost him 60 days in jail and a $500 fine, said
police spokesman Ott Cefkin. DeMango was not amused. “I would think
that would be the most absurd thing, if I were to go to jail for this,” he
grumbled.
— Tampa Bay Times/St. Petersburg (Florida) Times
Human Interest People like stories about people who have special problems
or achievements, or who have overcome difficulties. Human interest could also be
described as animal interest stories because many stories about pets — especially
missing or found pets — fit in this category.
Humans aren’t the only ones who like to poke around their iPads. Now
orangutans do, too.
When zoo keepers at the Smithsonian National Zoo were seeking ways
to add more stimulation to the orangutans, they contacted Orangutan
Outreach, a nonprofit organization that had success using iPads with apes
at 12 other zoos in a program called “Apps for Apes.” So they introduced
iPads to six of the zoo’s orangutans.
Their conclusions: Different apps for different apes. For example, “36-year-
old Bonnie likes to bang on the drums, 16-year-old Kyle prefers the piano and
25-year-old Iris is content to listen to the soothing sounds of the koi pond while
watching animated fish splash,” according to a news release from the zoo.
“Apps for Apes fits perfectly in this new era of zoo keeping,” said Becky
Malinsky, great ape keeper at the National Zoo. “It’s about changing up the
day-to-day lives of our animals. We already vary their food, toys and so-
cial interactions every day, but the iPad offers another way to engage their
sight, touch and hearing.”
Richard Zimmerman, founding director of Orangutan Outreach, said the Apps
for Apes program is designed to help people understand the need to protect
wild orangutans from extinction. “We do that when we show Zoo visitors how
similar humans and apes are, be it through observation, talking with wildlife ex-
perts or seeing the apes use the same technology we use every day,” he said.
Conflict Stories involving conflicts that people
have with government or other people are often
newsworthy, especially when the conflict reflects
local problems or, in this case, a national issue.
The Boy Scouts of America voted
Thursday to end its controversial policy
banning gay kids and teens from joining
one of the nation’s most popular youth
organizations. . . . 	Boy Scouts from Pack 77.
Cpl.Lauren Kurkimilis/Courtesy U.S. Marines
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 29 of 498 --

12	PART 1 	Understanding neWs
But the outcome of the historic ballot is not going to end the debate:
Some opponents on the right said they would pull their sponsorships of
packs and troops, and parents threatened to take their boys out of Scouting.
— NBCNews.com
Impact Reaction stories to news events or news angles that affect readers have
impact, especially when major national stories or tragedies occur in any community.
Newspapers often seek local angles by writing how people in their areas are affected
by the news, as in this story following a school shooting in Connecticut.
SARATOGA SPRINGS, N.Y. — The sale and display of semiautomatic
weapons and high capacity ammunition magazines will be banned at the
upcoming gun show at the Saratoga City Center after City Council passed a
resolution in the wake of a mass shooting in Newtown, Connecticut.
A gunman massacred 20 elementary school children and six educators
at the Sandy Hook Elementary School in Connecticut by using a Bushmaster
Ar-15-style rifle, a popular firearm.
The decision to ban the sale and display of these weapons is part of a
compromise between the Sarasota Springs city officials, who wanted to cancel
the event, and organizers of the gun show, who wanted it to go on as planned.
Some additional qualities of news to consider:
Helpfulness Consumer, health and other how-to stories help readers cope with
their lives. Online news sites abound with helpful stories.
If your head spins at the torrent of medical studies that fills newspapers,
magazines and TV, join the club. It seems that each day brings another
round of studies contradicting last month’s hot results.
One day vitamin E is found to prevent cancer. Next, it is suspected of
causing it.
Margarine is good. No, it’s bad.
One can almost hear a collective scream of frustration across the land.
Studies are the cornerstone of medical progress, showing doctors
and patients the way to longer, healthier lives. But they can also lead us
astray.
To try to help you through the hype and hustle, here’s a basic outline of
what studies are, how they differ, what they can tell us and where they can
go wrong. Call it A User’s Guide to Medical Studies. Or, How to Follow Health
News Without Having a Stroke.
— PhiLLiP E. CaNuto, Knight-Ridder/Tribune News Service
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 30 of 498 --

13	CHAPTER 1 	Changing ConCepts of news
Celebrities People who are well-known for their accomplishments — primarily
entertainers, athletes or people who have gained fame for achievements, good or
bad — attract a lot of attention. But celebrity news has become so popular that some
journalists are concerned it is displacing more important news and pandering to the
public’s desire for entertainment.
Ted Koppel, former anchor of the TV show “Nightline,” said in a “Frontline”
interview: “To the extent that we’re now judging journalism by the same standards
that we apply to entertainment — in other words, give the public what it wants, not
necessarily what it ought to hear, what it ought to see, what it needs, but what it
wants — that may prove to be one of the greatest tragedies in the history of American
journalism.”
Entertainment Stories that amuse readers, make them feel good or help them
enjoy their leisure time have entertainment value. In a broad sense, many of the news
features in sports and lifestyle sections can be classified as entertainment. These
stories often involve celebrities or have human-interest qualities. But they are also
controversial. The line between news and entertainment is not clear, especially in
coverage of celebrities as stated in the previous item. However, this story combines
qualities of human interest and unusual nature to entertain or amuse readers:
When Marjorie Clapprood opened her W-2 form from the state of
Massachusetts, she was shocked.
The form said she was dead.
“Boy, when you’re out, you’re out,” said Clapprood, a former state repre-
sentative who lost her bid for re-election.
But she was by no means alone.
State W-2 tax forms mailed recently listed all 199 members of last
year’s Legislature as dead.
Some residents of the financially troubled state suspected that all along.
But members of last year’s Legislature are taking exception to their re-
cent demise, which was caused by a clerical error.
Clapprood, for one, said she isn’t about to let the IRS consider her dead.
“They owe me money, I think,” she said.
Corrected forms are to be mailed to the resurrected shortly.
— tom toroK, The Philadelphia Inquirer
Issues or Problems in the Community These stories usually include qual-
ities such as conflict and proximity. This story is about an issue of interest to
Californians, but it would also be of interest to people in other cities where home-
lessness is a problem.
Homeless people in California may be getting legal protection for sleeping,
congregating, panhandling and urinating on public property.
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 31 of 498 --

14	PART 1 	Understanding neWs
A San Francisco assemblyman
has proposed a “Homeless Bill of
Rights” to legally protect homeless
people who are engaging in
activities on public property. If
passed by the Legislature, homeless
people would have the right to sleep
in legally parked cars, receive funds
from public welfare programs and
receive legal counsel if they are
cited for infractions.
The measure is expected to be
controversial in many cities, including
Sacramento, which has battled tent
cities for homeless people, and
San Francisco, where local laws
bar homeless people from sitting
or lying on sidewalks.
Trends Stories may indicate trends, which
are patterns or shifts in issues that influence
readers’ lives, such as increases in crime, social
issues and other forces in society.
Many Milwaukee area public libraries no longer have strict “SH!” policies.
Libraries are shedding their image as quiet, somber places for book-
worms and students only. Instead, today’s libraries offer a wide variety of
materials and programs in an effort to appeal to more people.
— LawrENCE SuSSmaN, Milwaukee Journal Sentinel
hard news and features
News falls into two basic categories: hard news and soft news. Hard news includes sto-
ries of a timely nature about events or conflicts that have just happened or are about
to happen, such as crimes, fires, meetings, protest rallies, speeches and testimony in
court cases. The hard-news approach is basically an account of what happened, why
it happened and how readers will be affected. These stories have immediacy.
Soft news is defined as news that entertains or informs, with an emphasis on
human interest and novelty, and less immediacy than hard news. For example, a pro-
file about a man who designs model airplanes or a story about the effectiveness of
diets would be considered soft news.
A homeless person sleeping on a street in San Francisco will have
new rights under a proposed bill.
Christopher Beland/Creative Commons
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 32 of 498 --

15	CHAPTER 1 	Changing ConCepts of news
Soft news can also be stories that focus on people, places or issues that affect
readers’ lives. These types of stories are called “feature stories.” A story about the
growing number of babies suffering from AIDS could be considered a soft-news
story. It isn’t less important than hard news, but it isn’t news that happened over-
night. However, a feature story can be based on a news event. Instead of being just
a factual account of the event, it features or focuses on a particular angle, such as
human-interest reactions.
If the action or event occurred the same
day as or the day before publication of the
newspaper, the event is called “breaking
news.” Here is an example of the lead of a
breaking news story from a Saturday edition:
Tornadoes rapped Topeka and south-
east Shawnee County Friday afternoon,
damaging seven homes and sending
residents scurrying for cover.
No one was injured by the short,
severe storm that struck unexpectedly.
— StEvE Fry, Topeka (Kansas)
Capital-Journal
Damage to a home in Kansas from a tornado.
Linda Winkler/Courtesy of Federal Emergency Management Agency
M U lT i M e d i a 	c o a c H
train yoUrself
to think for multimedia.
■■ ■■■Compare online news
stories with those in your
local newspaper. Are they
the same, or do they
offer links, polls, questions and other related
features?
If your local TV news station has a website,
compare that site with the newspaper’s website.
■■ Learn to think interactively. Analyze interactive
online features such as polls, games, message
boards and databases in your local websites
or others, such as CNN (www.cnn.com).
■■ Plan to update stories. Analyze how major
news sites continually update their stories.
■■ Consider the role of blogs and social media
comments. Analyze blogs for their news or
entertainment value. Check journalists’ blogs
at www.cyberjournalist.net/journalist-blogs.
■■ Consider the nature of your audience.
■■ Become a visual thinker. Compare the visuals
for a news story covered in your newspaper,
on TV and online. Consider visuals for the
stories you will produce.
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 33 of 498 --

16	PART 1 	Understanding neWs
The preceding example of a hard-news story tells readers what happened. The
newspaper also printed this feature story focusing on people affected by the storm:
Becky Clark of Topeka was told the tornado sirens that sounded Friday
afternoon were a false alarm.
Then she got home from work and saw her back yard at 2411 S.E.
Gemini Ave. in the Aquarian Acres neighborhood.
“I couldn’t believe it,” she said.
A tornado had lifted up the family pontoon boat, which was parked in the
back yard, and tossed it into the family swimming pool, crushing part of the boat.
“It just wanted to get in the water,” said Joe Clark, Becky’s husband.
“I guess it was tired of being in dry dock. . . . .”
— JoE taSChLEr, Topeka (Kansas) Capital-Journal
The hard-news story about the storm was the main story, called a “mainbar.”
Because the accompanying feature story was a different angle on the same topic, it
was a sidebar packaged with the main story.
But many other features in a newspaper do not have a breaking news peg. They
simply focus on interesting people or topics. For example, the Boca Raton (Florida)
News printed a feature story on the growing popularity of waterbeds, a topic of
interest to its readers.
the importance of visUals
The presentation of a story with photographs or graphics is crucial. Broadcast media
depend on visuals for the majority of stories. Studies by The Poynter Institute in St.
Petersburg, Florida, show an increased emphasis on graphic devices and color in print
media.
In one study, called “Eyes on the News,” research-
ers measured eyetracking, the movements of people’s
eyes as they read the newspaper. The results of this
study, also known as the Eye Track study, showed that
readers are drawn to color photographs first, then
headlines, cutlines (captions), briefs (stories abbre-
viated to one to three paragraphs) and a number of
other graphic devices called “points of entry” — points
where the reader enters a story. Some of those eye-
catching points include subheadlines and quotations
displayed in larger type within the story.
The study also concluded that most people only
scan the newspaper, looking at headlines and graph-
ics, and that they read very few stories all the way
through. The average reader skims about 25 percent
Headgear to track readers’ eye movements in the
Poynter Eye Track study.
Courtesy of the Poynter Institute
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 34 of 498 --

17	CHAPTER 1 	Changing ConCepts of news
of the stories in the newspaper but thoroughly reads only half of those (about 12
percent), the study concluded.
Mario Garcia, who co-authored the Poynter study and is a world-renowned con-
sultant on newspaper design, says the majority of readers today do not remember
life without television, so visual elements are crucial in a newspaper. “The marriage
of visual and words has to begin early — from the first time you learn reporting,” he
says. Garcia now says the iPad will have a dramatic effect on news.
Reno Gazette-Journal/Source: GNS Research
5 miles
89
50
28
207
South
Lake Tahoe
50
Homewood
Water spout sighting	Upward winds
Winds twist upward as air rushes
into the bottom of the vortex. They
usually rotate counterclockwise,
but 1% of them spin clockwise.
Zephyr
Cove
N
A thunderstorm updraft –
rising warm air – lifts the
rotating air. If the rotation’s
diameter shrinks after being
lifted, it speeds up and may
become a spout.
In and near a thunderstorm, higher
winds move faster than winds along
the ground due to friction
with the Earth’s surface.
The air in between
begins slowly rotating.
Rotating winds
Rotating winds
Updraft
Lake
Tahoe
Graphic explaining how a waterspout is created.
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 35 of 498 --

18	PART 1 	Understanding neWs
The latest Eye Track study conducted by Poynter in 2012 on how people read
on tablets revealed that people “tended to enter a screen through a dominant ele-
ment, generally a photograph.” Faces in photographs and videos, as well as maps and
explanatory graphics, particularly graphics showing weather or traffic patterns, were
viewed more on tablets than charts were in print and online media.
That finding contradicts an Eye Track study in 2007 of online readers that deter-
mined that graphics were less important in online news. The study found that online
readers focused first on text in news websites rather than informational graphics.
But with the influence of mobile devices, the latest study on how people read on
tablets is significant for writers and news designers. Another conclusion was that when
people read on tablets, they tended to keep their finger on the screen and touched the
screen frequently. This multitouch environment indicates a need for some interactiv-
ity, Garcia said. “You have to make the finger happy; keep the reader engaged.”
All the studies confirm that in this multimedia world, planning visual elements is
a crucial part of any news or public relations presentation.
the coaching method
This book is developed around a coaching method, which is a way of helping writers
discover their problems and learn techniques to solve them.
Just as a basketball coach trains players to improve their techniques on the court,
a writing coach trains writers to improve their techniques in the craft. This book aims
to serve as a surrogate writing coach by anticipating the problems writers might
have and offering solutions. It features tips from leading writing coaches and award-
winning journalists.
The coaching method in this book has four phases:
1. conceive the idea: At this stage you develop the idea for the story. If you are
covering an event, such as a meeting or an accident, you need to start with the
idea — the main point of what occurred. Who, what, when, where and why will
this person, place or event be of interest to become a news story? That main
idea will be the focus of your story. Once you begin reporting, you may discover
some information that is more important than your original focus. Therefore,
you should be flexible and decide the focus for writing after you collect the
material.
2. collect: This is the reporting stage. Before you conduct your interview, you
should look for background information: Check online sources and any avail-
able documents or clips from previous stories about your subject and your
sources. Then interview sources, and gather as much information as you can
about your topic. Don’t rely on one source; seek several points of view. Ask more
questions and take more notes than you plan to use. You should also jot down
your observations and gather as many details as possible.
3. construct: This is the planning and writing stage. Begin with a plan for your
story developed around the focus, the main idea of your story. Then go through
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 36 of 498 --

19	CHAPTER 1 	Changing ConCepts of news
1 visual awareness: Try this experiment to test
your reading habits. Bring to class a copy of a
newspaper you haven’t read. Read the newspaper
as you would for pleasure. Place a check on the
first item you look at — a picture, graphic, headline
or story. Mark the stories you read, and place an X
at the point in the story where you decide to stop
reading. Where did your eye go first? Why are visual
elements so important? Now analyze which stories
you read and how much of them you read. Where
did you stop on most stories? Why? Keep in mind
that because you are a journalism student, you may
read more than the average reader. If you have an
iPad or tablet computer, try the same experiment,
and make notes of any differences in how you read.
2 Journal: Keep a journal of your reading or viewing
habits of news for three days. Write a paragraph
each day about the kinds of stories you read
and didn’t read, how many you read all the way
through, and how many you read just through the
headline or the first few paragraphs. Note how you
accessed the stories — online, via a mobile phone
or tablet device or from a print publication or a TV
newscast. Analyze your preferences. Then inter-
view three other people — students, neighbors or
strangers — and ask them what kinds of stories
they do and don’t read in print and online. Ask
where they get the majority of their news — from
print, broadcast, mobile or online media. Write a
summary of your findings.
3 online news ideas: Either in small groups or
as a class, brainstorm topics and ideas that you
would want to read in an online newspaper or
magazine or on a digital device. Brainstorm at
least three interactive features for an online college
newspaper.
4 Qualities of news: Analyze your local or campus
newspaper or website on the front page and/
or local section. Identify the qualities of news of
the main stories. Now do the same for a TV news
broadcast. Jot down the stories in a 30-minute
telecast, and identify the qualities of news in each
segment.
exercises
your notes and mark only the information related to that focus. Like a carpenter
building a house, you need a blueprint. Jot down a few key words to indicate how
you will organize your story. Then write a first draft of your story. You may revise
your original draft in the next step.
4. correct: After you have written your story, read it and make any necessary
changes. You may decide to add or delete information or to completely reorganize
the story during this stage. You should also check the spelling of all names and
the accuracy of facts, and you should correct grammar, style and typing errors.
These four steps constitute the basic process for all news stories. In the coming
chapters you will learn many techniques for reporting and writing news.
FeaTUred ONliNe aCTiviTies: Log on to
the MindTap for Rich’s Writing and Reporting
News to access a variety of robust additional
material, including this chapter’s learning objec-
tives, activities, comprehension quizzes, and
more!
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 37 of 498 --

Chapter 2
The Basic News
Story
20
Too many stories fail to answer the reader’s most
challenging question: So what?
—ROY PETER CLARK, Writing Coach and Author
CoaChing Tips
state the focus, the main
idea, of your story in one
sentence.
To find your lead, ask
yourself: What is most
important or most
interesting?
Write the story in a
conversational tone, as
though you were telling a
friend.
Consider how your story
will affect readers.
Consider what
photographs, graphics, audio
or video your story needs
for print, broadcast or
online delivery.
Consider how your story
could be promoted or
discussed on Twitter or
other social media.
© kajakiki/Shutterstock.com
part 1 	UNderSTaNdiNg NeWS
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 38 of 498 --

21	CHAPTER 2 	The Basic News sTory
the basic news story is told upside down: the end result is
given first. It is usually called a hard-news story. That doesn’t mean it
should be hard to read — quite the contrary. It really should be called an easy-news
story because the facts are presented in a direct form that makes it easy for the reader
to get the most important information quickly.
A hard-news story presents the key facts in the first few paragraphs. If a news
story were a mystery story, you would solve the mystery in the beginning and then
devote the rest of the story to telling the reader how and why it happened.
For example, if state officials who regulate higher education — often called the
Board of Regents — met yesterday to discuss an increase in tuition at universities
in your state, you wouldn’t write that the Board of Regents met to consider a tuition
increase. You would give the results. What did the regents decide? Who is affected?
Here is an example:
Tuition at the University of Alaska will increase 25 percent in the next two years,
according to a budget proposal approved by the university’s Board of Regents.
Undergraduate fees will increase by $128 in the fall and by another $365
in the following year, raising the total tuition for in-state students to $5,580.
The board’s action prompted widespread protests by students who demon-
strated on the Anchorage campus and voiced their anger on Facebook and blogs.
This direct approach to news is effective in
all types of media: print, broadcast, online and
for news releases in public relations. It is espe-
cially important when writing for small screens
on mobile media, which is an increasing form
of delivery for news.
FindinG the Focus
Not all basic news stories have to start with such
a direct approach. Some stories start with a story-
telling approach, such as an anecdote about a
person or place. Regardless of how you start
your story, all news stories are developed around
one main point — a focus. The rest of the story
should contain quotes, facts and information to support that focus. Because readers and
viewers are bombarded with so much information these days, they want to know the
point of the story quickly, so you need to put the focus in the first sentence or within the
first few paragraphs of the story. The following questions will help you find a focus:
Students at the University of Alaska Anchorage protest tuition
increases.
Nicholas Money/
The
 Northern Light
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 39 of 498 --

22	PART 1 	Understanding neWs
What’s the Story About? To determine the focus of a news story, ask yourself,
“What’s the story about?” Try to answer that question in one simple sentence. Think
of focus as a headline for your story. How would you describe the main idea in a few
words? What makes this story newsworthy? How would you express the focus in a
tweet of 140 characters?
How Are Readers or Viewers Affected? Why should readers or viewers care
about your story? This is the “so-what” factor. Is there something important, interest-
ing or unusual that will affect your audience? Is there something that will inspire
readers to blog or tweet about your story?
How Would You Tell the Story to a Friend? Another way to determine your
focus is to use the “tell-a-friend” technique. This is a natural conversational method,
particularly important in broadcast writing.
Imagine that your friend asks what the story is about and what happened. Chances
are that you might talk about the most interesting information first.
In this example, the focus is in the first sentence, which is the lead. It tells what
the story is about and how it affects the reader. It is also written in a conversational
tone. The second paragraph and the rest of the story provide facts and information
to support this main idea.
Headline —
Focus in the
lead
Second
paragraph
supporting
the lead
Eye on privacy at work
If you have a job, you have no
privacy when it comes to using
the office computer.
From monitoring emails to
capturing instant messages
among friends, employers
can do as they see fit with the
information passing through a
company network.
— Chicago Tribune
basic Questions
All news stories answer some basic questions:
who, what, when, where, why, and how?
As newspaper readership declines and com-
petition increases because of all-day coverage in
broadcast and online media, editors increasingly
want answers to these questions: So what? What
is the significance to readers? How can you make
readers see and care about the story?
Eugene Roberts, a former editor at The New
York Times and The Philadelphia Inquirer, tells
this story about how his editor influenced him
to write vividly enough to make the reader see.	Computers aren’t private in the workplace.
Keith Riggs/Federal Emergency Management Agency
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 40 of 498 --

23	CHAPTER 2 	The Basic News sTory
Roberts was a reporter at the Goldsboro News-Argus in North Carolina. His editor,
Henry Belk, was blind. Many days Belk would call in Roberts to read his stories to
him, and Belk would yell, “Make me see. You aren’t making me see.”
Advice from Roberts: “The best reporters, whatever their backgrounds or their
personalities, share that consummate drive to get to the center of a story and then
put the reader on the scene.”
Much has changed in the media since Roberts was a reporter many years ago. But
his advice is just as relevant today. Identify the center of the story, which is the focus;
gather information to make the reader see; and write a compelling story to make the
reader care.
eleMents oF the basic news story
News stories in all media share some common elements. Every news story is based
on one main idea — the focus. The basic news story structure includes a headline and
three general parts: a beginning, called the “lead”; a middle, called the “body” and an
ending.
headline
The headline is the line on top of the story that identifies the main idea of the story
so the reader can decide whether to access the full story. Online news sites and many
newspapers today are using secondary headlines — called “deck heads,” “summary
lines” or “summary blurbs.” The two headlines together give the reader a quick over-
view of the story’s content.
salmon spawn a new crisis
Dwindling numbers and
fading strength threaten to add
the fish to the list of endangered
species.
— Los Angeles Times
Headline
Deck head/
summary
blurb
If you are having trouble identifying the main
point of a story, think of a headline for it. Broadcast
news scripts don’t include headlines, but the con-
cept will help you find focus.
lead
At the beginning of the story, the hook that tells the reader what the story is about is
called the “lead.” A good lead entices the reader to continue reading. In a hard-news
Salmon about to spawn.
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 41 of 498 --

24	PART 1 	Understanding neWs
story, the lead usually is written in one sentence — the first sentence of the story —
and gives the most important information about the event. But even a basic story can
have a creative lead, called a “soft lead” or “feature lead.”
Summary Leads The most common type of lead on a hard-news story is called
a “summary lead” because it summarizes the main points about what happened. It
answers the questions of who, what, when, where, why and how. The rest of the story
elaborates about what, why and how.
Hard-News Leads These leads do not have to answer all those questions in the
first sentence if doing so would make the lead too long and difficult to read.
Shorter leads of fewer than 35 words are preferable, but that number is only a
guideline. With the increasing delivery of news for mobile media, brief writing is
better for readers accessing information on their smartphones.
The writer has to decide which elements are most important to stress in the first
sentence. The summary lead in the following example stresses who, what, where and
when; the rest of the story gives more details, such as the names of the professor and
the suspect:
A Northwestern University professor of hearing sciences was shot and
seriously wounded in a university parking lot Thursday.
Feature Leads A lead that starts with a story or description about a person, place
or incident, is called a “feature lead” or an “anecdotal lead.” Many feature leads begin
with a description of a person who is a key source in the story, and the focus of the
story is explained in another paragraph.
Lead
Focus
When he was a little girl, Leo said
he hated wearing dresses. Today
the Ball State University graduate
student is sitting in his office, clad
in khakis and a button shirt.
At first encounter, Leo, who
asked for his last name not to be
used, looks like a typical thirty-
something guy; sideburns, goatee,
a little pudgy but nothing out
of the ordinary. In a raspy tenor
voice, he talks about the store he
and his wife own, about their cats
and about how he quit smoking
three months ago and can’t live
without nicotine gum.
But Leo’s demure appearance
betrays his extraordinary past.
In 1999 he began the process of
physically transitioning from a
woman named Lynette into a man
named Leo.
— AdriAn ShArp, Ball State
(indiana) Daily News
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 42 of 498 --

25	CHAPTER 2 	The Basic News sTory
Nut graph	The cost of attending UC
Santa Cruz, or for that matter
most any university, has sky-
rocketed over the past three
years. . . . More and more stu-
dents are leaving school with
huge financial burdens.
— Santa Cruz (California)
Sentinel
Anecdotal
lead
SANTA CRUZ — Until Hollywood
calls, film major Wesley Adkins
said he’s OK with being a strug-
gling artist. But by the time
he graduates, the junior may
wish he was a business major.
Already his student loans total
$25,000.
nut Graph
The nut graph is a sentence or paragraph that states the focus — the main point — of
the story. It should tell in a nutshell what the story is about and why it is newsworthy.
The term was coined more than 50 years ago by The Wall Street Journal in a memo to
its staff. The memo said a story must have one central theme that must be expressed
in a “nutshell summary” high in the story. The concept of the nut graph has since
become a standard formula for all news stories.
In a hard-news story with a direct summary lead, the lead contains the focus, so
you don’t need a separate nut graph. But the nut graph is crucial when a story starts
with a feature lead because the reader has to wait for a few paragraphs to find out
the reason for the story.
The nut graph should be placed high in the story, generally by the third to fifth
paragraph. But if the lead is very compelling, the nut graph could come later. Rigid
rules can ruin good writing.
Quotes or sound bites
After the lead, the body of the story should support the focus with information from
sources, quotes or facts that explain the main idea. If you have a good quote or sound
bite from a source, it should be placed high in the story after the lead or nut graph.
The first quote that backs up the lead is called the “lead quote” or the “augmenting
quote.” It is usually the strongest quote you have, and it supports the concept in the
lead without repeating the same information or wording. In broadcast news a good
sound bite following the lead is equivalent to the lead quote.
A lead quote isn’t required in all stories, but a strong quote or sound bite helps
make the story more interesting. If the lead does not contain all the information about
who, what, when, where, why and how, these questions should be answered in the
body of the story. In this example, the lead quote is in the third paragraph, and the
nut graph is in the fifth paragraph.
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 43 of 498 --

26	PART 1 	Understanding neWs
Lead quote
When he discusses drinking,
tragedy and lawsuits with people
nationwide, Dave Westol gets rapt
attention by flashing a picture
of grim young men in dark suits
and ties — their hands folded.
Their heads bowed.The picture
shows the funeral of 19-year-old
University of Kansas freshman
Jason Wren, who was pronounced
dead from alcohol poisoning on
March 8, 2009, in his fraternity,
Sigma Alpha Epsilon.
“I throw that slide up, and
the audience inevitably becomes
silent,” said Westol, an official
for the Fraternal Information
and Programming Group, a non-
profit that educates Greeks na-
tionwide on risky behaviors and
legal liabilities.
Nut graph
Before Jason Wren died, he
was best known for his big heart
and fun-loving nature. He was
outgoing. He was athletic. He
played for the KU lacrosse club.
But since his death, Wren is
better known for how and where
he died. His name has taken on
a national and local role as an
attention-grabber for experts like
Westol and a wake-up call for
universities. He is just one student
among grim statistics that show
significant alcohol abuse among
college students — especially
those at the University of Kansas —
and even more abuse among fra-
ternity members nationwide.
— GARTH SEARS, University Daily Kansan
impact
Whenever possible, the writer should explain how the news affects readers. The
“impact” sentence or paragraph should answer these questions: What is the signifi-
cance of this story? What in the story makes the reader care? Sometimes the impact
is explained in the lead or in the nut graph; sometimes it is lower in the story, in an
explanatory paragraph.
Not all stories can show direct impact on readers, but they should all have a clear
paragraph explaining the reason for the story. In some stories, such as police stories,
the impact is that the news happened in the community and should be of interest to
local residents.
Home users are now the top target for Internet attackers, who are launching
increasingly sophisticated attacks.
That’s the sobering warning from Symantec’s latest Internet security
threat report, released today.
— The Vancouver Sun
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 44 of 498 --

27	CHAPTER 2 	The Basic News sTory
Online news sites provide impact in several interac-
tive ways: Databases let readers search statistics about
education, crime or property values in their commu-
nities; interactive calculators give readers a chance to
figure what a tax increase might cost them; feedback
questions, polls and blogs ask readers to comment on
issues. Social media sites encourage readers and viewers
to interact with the news.
attribution
Where did you get the information? Who told you these
facts? How can the reader be sure what you say is true?
Attribution, which identifies the source of the informa-
tion, can provide those answers. With the proliferation
of social media (blogs, Twitter and other sites), it is even
more difficult to determine the validity of information.
Attribution adds credibility for the story.
You need to attribute all quotes — exact wording of
statements that people made — and much information
that you did not witness. If the information is common
knowledge or indisputable, you do not have to attribute
it. However, you need to attribute any statements that
express opinions.
No attribution
needed —
common
knowledge
Millions of people in the U.S. and
other countries use cell phones.
Drivers using cell phones are
four times more likely to cause a
crash than other drivers, according
to a Harvard University study.
Attribution
needed —
not common
knowledge
A driver distracted by her cellphone.
Amanda Mills/Centers for Disease Control
The attribution should be in the lead for controversial or accusatory information,
but in many other cases it can be delayed so it doesn’t clutter the lead. Police stories
often have attribution in the lead, especially if you get the information by telephone
or if the information is accusatory:
Lead with
attribution
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. —
A 15-year-old boy was
stabbed twice in the chest
Thursday afternoon when he
apparently tried to break up
a fight in a crowded parking
lot at Northeast High School,
authorities said.
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 45 of 498 --

28	PART 1 	Understanding neWs
context/background
Is there any history or background the reader needs in order to understand how a prob-
lem or action occurred? Put the story in perspective, or context. If the story is about a fire,
accident or crime, how many other incidents of this type have occurred in the community
recently? Most stories need some background to explain the action, as in this example:
Lead
Lead quote
Background
Lock your doors. That’s the
advice of University of Iowa
security chief Dan Hogan in light
of recent reports of a prowler
slipping into unlocked dormitory
rooms at night.
“I can’t stress that enough,”
he said. “It’s a very serious
situation.”
Since Aug. 24, there have
been six reports of a man
entering women’s rooms
between 3 a.m. and 5:30 a.m.
Five incidents were in Burge
Hall and one was in Currier Hall.
Two times the man touched
the sleeping women, Hogan
said. But there was no force
or violence. In each instance
the man ran when the woman
discovered him.
More recently, a woman in
Burge Hall heard someone at
her door. She opened it and saw
a man running down the hall,
Hogan said.
— VALOrEE ArMSTrOnG,
Iowa City Press-Citizen
A smoky bar may be more
harmful to your health than a
city street filled with diesel truck
fumes, according to a new study.
Smoky bars and casinos
have up to 50 times more
cancer-causing particles than
air in highways and city streets
clogged with diesel trucks, the
study says.
Lead with
general
attribution
Backup
with specific
attribution
Indoor air pollution virtually
disappears when smoking is
banned, according to the study
published in the Journal of
Occupational and Environmental
Medicine and partially funded
by the Robert Wood Johnson
Foundation of New Jersey,
a philanthropic organization
devoted to health care.
Police and school officials
said the stabbing, believed
to have occurred after one
student took another’s hat, was
the first they could recall at
Pinellas County schools.
— Tampa Bay Times/St.
Petersburg (Florida) Times
Backup
In the next example, general attribution is in the lead, but the specific attribution is
in the third paragraph. The sources for the study are too cumbersome to use in the lead.
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 46 of 498 --

29	CHAPTER 2 	The Basic News sTory
elaboration
Supporting points related to the main issue constitute “elaboration.” These can be
statements, quotes or more detail to explain what happened, how and why the prob-
lem or action occurred, and reactions to the event.
In this part of the story, seek other points of view to make sure you have balance
and fairness. A story based on one source can be too biased. The preceding story
about the University of Iowa continued with more explanation:
George Droll, director of residence services, said main doors to the halls
were locked from midnight to 6 a.m. But each resident has a key. Some
floors have 24-hour visitation.
Often students feel more secure than they should because the buildings are
large and are home to many of their friends, he said.
ending
The most common type of ending includes one of these elements: future action, a
statement or quote that summarizes but does not repeat the previous information or
more elaboration. If the future action is a key factor in the issue, it should be placed
higher in the story. Avoid summary endings that repeat what you have already said.
In a basic news story, end when you have no more new information to reveal.
The ending on the Iowa story follows the residence director’s comments about
why students feel secure in large buildings where they have friends:
Summary
quote ending
“That’s a strength, but it can also
be a weakness in terms of people
securing their rooms,” Droll said.
Fairness and accuracy
If the story involves conflict, you should always get comments from both or all sides
of an issue. Avoid one-source stories. Also, make sure you attribute your sources,
including information you use from websites, other news organizations and quotes
or statements from people you interview.
Visuals
Visual elements such as photographs, charts and other graphic illustrations are cru-
cial to news presentation in print and online information. Video is also a major asset
for digital media. Visuals also enhance news releases or media kits in public relations.
Here are some other visual elements used to enhance news stories:
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 47 of 498 --

30	PART 1 	Understanding neWs
summary blurb
A paragraph or sentence summarizing the story is called a “summary blurb.” It is
placed below the headline.
In online news the summary and lead of the story may be the same because the
blurb may be on an index page linking to stories inside the site. But in print stories
when the blurb is published directly over the story, the lead does not have to repeat
the summary. It can be more creative, as in this example:
Headline
Summary
blurb
papers a lesson in criminology
A USF professor follows a pa-
per trail to a former student
wanted on charges he sold
term papers to criminology
majors.
A. Engler Anderson’s
term papers weren’t just
bad. They were a crime, said
one professor.
Anderson, 31, is wanted
on charges that he sold term
papers to two University of
South Florida students.
Their major?
Criminology.
The charge — selling a
term paper or dissertation to
another person — is only a
second-degree misdemeanor,
M U LT I M E D I A C O A C H
Focus is
crucial in print,
broadcast and online news.
If the focus of the story
is unclear to broadcast
viewers, they will turn to
another channel. If the focus in an online story
is not clear in the headline or summary blurb,
readers may not even click into your online
story. Ask yourself these questions:
■ What is the most important idea that will
entice viewers to listen to your story or online
readers to click into your story?
■ Before you write your story for any medium,
write a focus sentence in fewer than 35 words.
This also can be the lead of your story for an
online site or a broadcast story. Now convert
the focus into a headline of no more than six
words for an online site. Here’s an example:
Headline: 	Campus booze arrests jump
24 percent
Summary
blurb
under the
headline:
Sex, drug, weapons violations
also increase.
■ Online stories often have comment boxes or
polls seeking readers’ feedback. If you were
seeking feedback on the main idea of your
story, what question would you ask? The ques-
tion may give you a clue for finding your focus.
■ Have you answered the questions of who,
what, where, when, how and why, and
explained the impact on the reader or viewer?
■ If your story is about a conflict, have you
contacted sources on both sides of the issue?
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 48 of 498 --

31	CHAPTER 2 	The Basic News sTory
The story then explains how William Blount, chairman of the USF Criminology
Department, received two papers that he thought were “awful” and then discovered
they were written by Anderson, a former student.
pull Quote
A good pull quote might be broken out of the story, placed in larger type and used as a
point of entry to entice the reader. Although an editor may decide which quotes to pull
for graphic display, when you write your story, consider which quotes could be used to
entice readers. Then use your best quotes high in your story. In a story explaining sexual
harassment, this “pull quote” from an employment lawyer was used for emphasis:
I think what the law says is that if you hit on me, and I say, “No way,
Buster,” I’m entitled to have you accept my rejection of you, and it shouldn’t
interfere with my work.
— JudiTh VLAdECk, Employment Lawyer
Facts or highlights box
Information from a story is sometimes set off in a “facts box,” also called a “highlights
box,” for reading at a glance or providing key points in the story. A facts or highlights
box can include the dates in a chronology or the main points of a proposal or meeting.
It is especially useful for breaking statistics out of a story. Although some information
from a facts box may be crucial to include in the story, the writer should guard against
too much repetition. Facts boxes are effective in newspaper and online stories as well
as in magazine and public relations articles.
CNN uses highlights in a list at the top or on the side of major news stories on its
website. The highlights are usually four to five bulleted facts from the story to give
readers a quick summary of the main points as in this story about online dating:
STORY HIGHLIGHTS
■ Some dating experts say online dating has sapped our social skills
■ Approaching people and starting conversations can be hard if you’re not
used to it
but if he is caught, Anderson
will be held without bail
because he failed to appear
for a court hearing this week.
— Tampa Bay Times/
St. Petersburg (Florida) Times
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 49 of 498 --

32	PART 1 	Understanding neWs
■ Users mistake social media for being social, says body language expert
Blake Eastman
■ Practice talking to others by striking up a conversation in the coffee line
— CNN
Here is an example of a facts box that accompanied a story from The Kansas
City Star about the dangers of lightning. These statistics were not repeated in the
story:
LIGHTNING DEATHS AND INJURIES
Figures below were compiled from 35 years of U.S. lightning statistics.
Location of incident
■ Open fields, recreation areas: 27%
■ Under trees (not golf): 14%
■ Water-related (boating, fishing, swimming, etc.): 8%
■ Golf/golf under trees: 5%
Month of most incidents
■ July 30%
Deaths by state, top five
■ Florida, Michigan, Texas, New York, Tennessee
Source: National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
infographic
A chart, map, graph or other illustration meant to provide information is an
“infographic.” Examples of infographics are diagrams of plane crashes or major
accidents and illustrations explaining how something works. The most common type
of infographic, called a “location map,” pinpoints the location of an accident, a crime
or any other major news event.
It is the reporter’s responsibility to supply the information for those maps. So
when you report a story that may need a map, make sure you gather information
about the exact location of the event by noting the streets, the number of feet or
yards from a spot where an explosion or major crime occurred, or any other crucial
information that would help readers visualize the location. Stories for online delivery
might use Google maps or other programs to illustrate the location.
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 50 of 498 --

33	CHAPTER 2 	The Basic News sTory
Many 	of 	the 	visual 	ele-
ments — such as headlines,
boxes of information and sum-
mary sentences — are written
by editors. However, reporters
are expected to plan photos
for their stories and to pro-
vide information for some of
the graphics. When a chart,
a graphic or a facts box will
accompany your story, consider
whether the story needlessly
duplicates 	information 	that
could be presented visually. So
in the writing process, don’t
just think about information to
put into your story; think also
about information to pull out
for visual devices.
audio and Video for online delivery
Audio and video are crucial for television news stories, but if you are writing the
story for a print publication, you still should think about sound and sight. Most news
organizations have websites these days, so you should plan to record the interviews
for posting on the organization’s website. Also more news organizations — print and
broadcast — are delivering information for mobile media in text and video forms.
Reprinted with permission from
 The University Daily Kansan
Infographic by Andrew Rohrback, The University Daily Kansan.
S O C I A L 	M E D I A
you can use
social media concepts
before and after you write
your story.
■ Use Twitter as a way to
focus your story or conceive your lead by
composing a tweet in 140 characters.
■ Post a tweet to notify readers about the
news or updates to your story.
■ Consider how your story will affect readers;
what tweets, blogs or posts will your story
generate?
■ Are there links that you should include in
your tweets?
■ Is there a blog that you could write about
your story?
■ Are there photos you might post on
Instagram?
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 51 of 498 --

34	PART 1 	Understanding neWs
eXaMple oF basic
news story
The following example will show you how
elements of the basic news story fit together
for print or online delivery. This is a standard
news story with a summary lead. The story is
organized in “inverted pyramid” form, giving
the most important information first and the
rest in descending order of importance.
This story contains most of the basic news
elements described in this chapter.
Lead
Nut graph
Lead quote
Facts/quotes
Ending
Inverted Pyramid.
Summary
lead (who,
what, where)
Backup
Background/
elaboration
Reaction
Ending:
future action
Four families left homeless
by Tacoma apartment
blaze
Four families were left
homeless after fire raced
through an apartment
complex in this Tacoma
suburb, officials said.
No one was injured, but a
pet cat died in the two-alarm
blaze, firefighters said Monday.
About 12 people had to be
relocated.
The fire started yesterday
in an upper corner unit at
the Meadow Park Garden
Court and spread to a two-
bedroom apartment through
a common attic, University
Place Assistant Fire Chief
Lynn Wilbur said.
The blaze destroyed two
units and damaged two others.
Rosemary Hurlburt, whose
apartment was gutted, said
she and her two daughters
were at a convenience
store when the fire started.
The family lost a lot of new
possessions, she said.
“We just got new stuff. My
5-year-old daughter just had a
birthday party. We just got her
a brand-new bunk bed set,”
Hurlburt said.
Investigators had not
confirmed the cause of the
fire, but Wilbur said the blaze
may have been started by
a stove that was left on in
one unit.
“The pots were melted
down on it,” he said.
Apartment manager
Steve Edwards said he
couldn’t relocate the families
in the apartment complex
because it was filled to
capacity. Some of the
residents may have to seek
shelter through the American
Red Cross, he said.
— The Oregonian
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 52 of 498 --

35	CHAPTER 2 	The Basic News sTory
Quotes and attribution
Readers come to the newspaper the way they come to a party. They want to
talk to interesting people. Long quotes usually are not very interesting.
—SuSAn AGEr, Writing Coach
Good quotes can back up your lead and substantiate information in your story. In
addition, good quotes let the reader hear the speaker. But boring quotes can bog
down stories. If they repeat what you have already said, it’s better to paraphrase or
eliminate them. In a broadcast story, sound bites take the place of quotes.
Susan Ager, a former columnist and writing coach for the Detroit Free Press, said
reporters should consider quotes as the spice of the story, not the meat and potatoes.
plagiarism
Copying the words of other writers is plagiarism, a cardinal sin in journalism. Even if
you paraphrase information you receive from other publications, you are plagiarizing
E T H I C S
ethical
dileMMa: What do
you do if a source tells you
not to quote him at the end
of an interview or after the
interview but before you
go to press or on the air?
Ethical values: Decency, fairness, accuracy,
responsibility to readers and sources, credibility.
Ethical guidelines: The decision is more
difficult when sources want to withdraw
their quotes after you conduct an interview.
Try to avoid this situation by making it clear
at the start of your interview that you want
your source to go “on the record.” If you still
encounter a source who wants to retract a
quote, you can negotiate with the source, or
you can insist that you have a right to use
the information because you identified your
purpose clearly. But that may not help you.
Here are some questions to consider when
asked to withdraw a quote:
■ Are you being fair to your source?
■ Are you being fair to your readers?
■ Are the quotes essential to your story?
These are tough decisions. You can read more
about what constitutes “on the record” and “off
the record” or “not for attribution” in the chapter
on Interviewing Techniques.
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 53 of 498 --

36	PART 1 	Understanding neWs
if you don’t attribute it. Plagiarism is grounds for dismissal at most news organizations.
If you take information from written or online resources, make sure you attribute it.
Plagiarism applies to blogs, tweets and other online sites as well. If you copy
information from a source without needed attribution on your blog, you are still guilty
of stealing information.
when to use direct Quotes
Here are some guidelines for deciding when to use direct quotes:
■ Is the quote interesting and informative?
■ Can the quote back up the lead, the nut graph or a supporting point in your story?
■ Is the quote memorable without referring to your notes? If so, it’s probably a
good quote.
■ Do your quotes repeat your transitions? In broadcast news avoid introducing a
sound bite with a transition that repeats what the source will say. That is called
“parroting,” a technique that should be avoided.
■ Can you state the information better in your own words? If so, paraphrase.
■ Does the quote or sound bite advance the story by adding emotion, interest or
new information?
■ Are you including the quote or sound bite for your source or for your readers or
viewers? That is the most important question of all. The readers’ and viewers’
interests always take priority.
Here are some types of quotes or sound bites to avoid:
■ Avoid direct quotes when the source is boring or the information is factual and
indisputable. For example, a city official who says, “We are going to have our
regular monthly meeting Tuesday night” is not worth quoting directly.
■ Avoid any direct quote or sound bite that isn’t clearly worded. If a government
official says something in bureaucratic language that you don’t fully under-
stand, ask for clarification and then paraphrase.
■ Avoid accusatory quotes from politicians or witnesses of a crime. If you intend
to include any accusations, get a response from the person accused. A direct
quote or sound bite does not save you from libel. If police or other criminal
justice officials make accusations in an official capacity, you may use direct or
indirect quotes provided that you attribute them carefully.
■ Avoid quotes that don’t relate directly to the focus and supporting points in
your story.
how to write Quotes
On the surface, writing quotes may seem easy: You just write down what somebody
else has said. The format for writing sound bites in a broadcast script differs from print
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 54 of 498 --

37	CHAPTER 2 	The Basic News sTory
style and will be explained in the broadcast chapter. For print and online delivery,
observe the following guidelines if you want to use quotes correctly and effectively:
■ Always put commas and periods inside the quotation marks:
“There are no exceptions to that rule,” the professor said.
■ A question mark and other punctuation marks go within the quotation marks
if the punctuation refers to the quoted material; otherwise, they go outside the
quotation marks:
He asked, “When does the semester end?”
Who said, “I hope it ends soon”?
■ Each new speaker must be quoted in a separate paragraph:
“Never place quotes from two speakers in the same paragraph,” Professor
Les Polk said.
“Even if it’s short?” Janet Rojas asked.
“Yes,” Polk answered.
■ Don’t attribute a single quote more than once. If you have two quoted
sentences from the same speaker in the same paragraph, you need only one
attribution:
“You must study your Associated Press Stylebook,” the professor said.
“You will have a test Tuesday on material in the first 30 pages.”
■ “When the quote is two or more sentences in the same paragraph, attribute it
after the first sentence,” Carol English said. “Don’t make the reader wait until
the end of the paragraph to discover who is speaking.”
■ Attribution in the middle of a quote is acceptable, but not preferable if it
interrupts the thought:
“It isn’t the best way,” he said, “to use a direct quote. But it is all right
if the quote is very long. However, it’s better to put it at the end of a
complete sentence.”
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 55 of 498 --

38	PART 1 	Understanding neWs
■ Don’t tack on long explanations for the quote. If the quote isn’t clear by itself,
paraphrase. For example, avoid the following:
When asked how he learned about the fire at his apartment complex,
he said, “I heard the news on the television.”
■ Just as bad:
“I heard the news on the television,” he said when asked how he
learned about the fire at his apartment complex.
■ Instead, introduce the quote with a transition:
He was at a friend’s house when the fire broke out at his apartment.
“I heard the news on television,” he said.
■ Limit the use of partial quotes. They are acceptable when the whole quote
would be cumbersome, but too many partial quotes make a story choppy. And
the reader wonders what was left out. If you follow a partial quote with a full
one, you must close the partial quote:
McDonald says he sees the government as “weak and inept” and fraught
with “major-league problems.”
“There’s a crisis in our leadership,” McDonald says.
■ Limit the use of ellipses, which are sets of dots that indicate part of the quote
is missing.
Use three dots for the middle of a sentence and four (one of which is the period)
for an ellipsis at the end of the sentence. Use the ellipsis when you are condensing
whole quotes or long passages from which you delete several sentences. It’s useful
for stories about speeches or excerpts from court rulings. Be careful not to leave out
material that would change the speaker’s meaning.
When to Use Attribution All quotes must be attributed to a speaker. In addition,
you need to attribute information you paraphrase. In print and online writing, the
attribution may follow the quote, but in broadcast writing, the attribution must
come first. In many cases in broadcast news, the name and title of a speaker may
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 56 of 498 --

39	CHAPTER 2 	The Basic News sTory
be superimposed over the video on the bottom screen, so you don’t always need to
introduce the source in a sound bite.
Here are some guidelines for material you need and don’t need to attribute:
■ You don’t need to attribute facts that are on record or are general knowledge:
The trial will resume tomorrow.
A suspect has been arrested in connection with the slaying of a 16-year-old girl
in Hometown last week.
■ You don’t need to attribute information that you observed directly:
The protesters, carrying signs and chanting songs, gathered in the park.
■ You don’t need to attribute background information established in previous
stories about the same subject:
The defendant is accused of killing the three Overland Park women
whose bodies have never been found.
■ You need to attribute information you receive from sources if it is accusatory,
opinionated or not substantiated, and if you did not witness it — especially
in crime and accident stories. However, you don’t always have to attribute
everything in the lead. The following statement is factual, so no attribution is
needed:
A 2-year-old girl escaped injury when a mattress she was sitting
on caught fire and engulfed the studio apartment in flames at
Wheatshocker Apartments.
■ Attribution is needed here, however, because the cause of fire is accusatory and
the amount of damage is speculative:
A 2-year-old girl playing with a lighter started the fire at the Wheatshocker
Apartments near Wichita State University that caused about $400,000 in
damages, fire authorities said Thursday.
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 57 of 498 --

40	PART 1 	Understanding neWs
“She was just kind of flicking it, and she caught the bedding on fire,”
said fire Capt. Ed Bricknell.
—The Wichita (kansas) Eagle
Wording of Attribution For most hard-news stories, the word said is preferable.
Although there are many synonyms for said, they make the reader pause. Said does
not. Don’t worry about overusing the word.
■ Strictly speaking, said, the past tense, should be used if someone said some-
thing once. If someone always says the same thing, use says, the present tense.
However, that rule is very restrictive. You could also just use said for most
hard-news stories and use says for feature stories (if says seems appropriate
to the context). In either case, keep the tense you choose throughout the story;
if you start with says, continue using it for the rest of the story. In broadcast
writing “says” gives more immediacy.
■ Avoid substitutions for said, such as giggled, laughed or choked. It’s almost
impossible to giggle, laugh or choke at the same time you are speaking. If
you want to convey the emotion, write it this way: “I’m going to try out for the
circus,” she said, laughing.
■ Use according to when you are referring to inanimate objects: “according to a
study.” It is acceptable to say “according to police,” but not preferable. People
talk. Use said or says when you attribute to people; according to is vague.
■ Normal speaking order is preferable. You should place said after the name or pro-
noun. If the person has a long title, said can be placed before the name and title.
Awkward: “Normal speaking order is preferred,” said the professor.
Preferable: “Normal speaking order is preferred,” the professor said.
Overview Attribution This is a technique that allows you to attribute informa-
tion to one speaker for several paragraphs without attributing each statement or
each paragraph. It is useful when you are giving a chronology of events, as in a police
story. But if you change speakers, you need to use attribution for the new speaker. The
overview attribution is a brief statement followed by a colon.
Police described the incident this way:
Witnesses said this is what happened:
Police gave this account:
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 58 of 498 --

41	CHAPTER 2 	The Basic News sTory
Second References The second time you refer to a source in your story, use the
last name only. If you have several sources — or two sources with the same last name,
such as a husband and wife — use the full name again or an identifying phrase:
James Jones, the director of public safety, was injured in a three-car
crash yesterday. Jones was taken to Memorial Hospital, where he was
treated for bruises and released.
If you have mentioned several other people and want to get back to Jones later in
the story, remind the reader who Jones is by using his title:
Public Safety Director Jones said he would return to work Monday.
Titles When a person’s title is used before the name, capitalize it, as in the preceding
example. When it is used after the name, use lowercase letters:
Police Chief Ron Olin said the crime rate has gone down.
Olin, police chief of Lawrence, said the crime rate has gone down.
Courtesy Titles Most newspapers and TV scripts no longer use courtesy titles —
Mr., Miss, Mrs. or Ms. — before people’s names. There are exceptions. The New York
Times and The Wall Street Journal still use courtesy titles. Other newspapers use them
in obituaries. For general purposes in this book, courtesy titles will be eliminated
unless they are contained in examples from newspapers that still use them.
eXercises
1 basic news story: Write a story based on the fol-
lowing information. Write a focus sentence before
you start your story. For this story, your focus
sentence should be the results of the study. If you
want a lead that gets directly to the point, your
focus sentence could also be your lead.
Once you have written a focus sentence, add a
suggestion for visual presentation — a photograph,
chart, facts box, video excerpt or other graphic
illustration. Decide what facts, if any, should be
duplicated in the story and the graphic. Then
organize the story by placing facts, quotes and
elaboration in an order, with the most important
information near the top of the story and the least
important material near the bottom; and perhaps
end with a good quote. The following material
is based on a story from The (San Bernardino,
California) Sun.
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 59 of 498 --

42	PART 1 	Understanding neWs
who/what: A study comparing the death and
accident rates of left- and right-handed people.
when: Study was conducted last year and was
reported in today’s edition of the New England
Journal of Medicine.
where: Study was conducted by Diane Halpern, a
psychology professor at California State University
at San Bernardino, and Stanley Coren, a researcher
at the University of British Columbia.
why: To determine why fewer left-handed people
are among the elderly population.
how: Researchers studied death certificates of
987 people in two Southern California counties.
Relatives were queried by mail about the subjects’
dominant hands.
backup information: The following points are not
necessarily in the order they should be used in your
story.
The researchers found that the average age at
death for right-handed people was 75 and for left-
handed people, 66; left-handed people represent
10 percent of the U.S. population; right-handed
females tend to live six years longer than left-
handed females, and right-handed males live
11 years longer than left-handed males; left-handed
people were four times more likely to die from inju-
ries while driving than right-handers and six times
more likely to die from accidents of all kinds.
Halpern said, “The results are striking in their
magnitude.” Halpern is right-handed.
She said her study should be interpreted
cautiously. “It should not, of course, be used to
predict the life span of any one individual. It does
not take into account the fitness of any individual.”
Left-handed women die around age 72; right-
handed women die around age 78. Left-handed
men die about age 62; right-handed men die
about age 73.
“Some of my best friends are left-handed,” Halpern
said. “It’s important that mothers of left-handed
children not be alarmed and not try to change
which hand a child uses,” she said. “There are
many, many old left-handed people. We knew for
years that there weren’t as many old left-handers,”
Halpern said. “Researchers thought that was
because in the early years of the century, most
people born left-handed were forced to change
to their right hands. So we thought we were
looking at old people who used to be left-handed,
but we weren’t. The truth was that there simply
weren’t many left-handers left alive, compared to
right-handers.”
“Almost all engineering is geared to the right hand
and right foot,” Halpern said. “There are many
more car and other accidents among left-handers
because of their environment.”
2 reaction story: Interview at least three students
on campus who are left-handed. Ask them what
problems they encounter because they are left-
handed. Using the study in Exercise 1 as a focus
for your story, write a reaction story with the
students’ comments. Make sure you get the full
names of the students, their majors and year of
study (freshman, sophomore and so on), so you
can identify them properly in the story.
3 Find the focus: Using your local or campus
newspaper or an online news site, find the focus
paragraph (the nut graph) in three news stories on
the front page or main screen of the online site.
4 online focus exercise: Access an online news
site for your community or for a national source,
such as www.cnn.com, www.msnbc.com or www
.foxnews.com, and discuss the following points:
● Do the headlines and/or summary blurbs clearly
identify the main point of the story?
● Compare the headlines of major news stories in
two online sites.
● Which headlines entice you to click into the
story? Why?
● How long are the average online headlines?
● Do summary blurbs add or detract from your
interest in reading the full story? How much infor-
mation should the summary blurb reveal about
the story? What type of summary blurbs do you
prefer: a single sentence, a paragraph or a few
paragraphs?
5 Quotes and attribution exercise: Check the
appropriate column to indicate whether attribution
is or is not needed:
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 60 of 498 --

43	CHAPTER 2 	The Basic News sTory
Not
Needed 	Needed
a 	Two leading figures in the
growing national debate
about political correctness on
American college campuses
will be at the University of
South Florida in Tampa tonight.
b 	Dieting doesn’t work for the
vast majority of people.
c 	A 40-year-old woman went
berserk in her ex-boyfriend’s
apartment early Monday,
shooting him to death with
seven shots from two guns.
d 	Members of a local gay rights
group protested Thursday in
support of a gay University of
Tampa student’s efforts to take
an Army ROTC class.
e 	City council members voted
unanimously Thursday
to increase city fines for
prostitution.
f 	A York College sophomore
died early yesterday after
drinking at a dormitory party.
g 	Alumni members of Skull and
Bones, an all-male secret
society at Yale University, have
voted to admit women.
6 enterprise: Attend an event on your campus, and
write a basic news story about it. (Look in your
campus newspaper or your university’s website
for a list of activities that will take place during
the week, or check bulletin boards for notices of
activities.) Talk to friends about other story pos-
sibilities. Here are some other possible topics for
a news story at the start of the semester: a new
course, problems that students are having enrolling
in certain courses, a new club or organization on
campus or a student support group.
7 social media assignment: Search Twitter.com
for tweets on topics of stories you have written or
would like to write for a college publication (in print,
broadcast or online). List at least three ideas for
stories you could write that would be of interest to
your audience.
FeaTUred ONliNe acTiviTieS: Log on to the
MindTap for Rich’s Writing and Reporting News
to access a variety of robust additional material,
including this chapter’s learning objectives,
activities, comprehension quizzes, and more. Be
sure to check out the “Bank Robbery” NewsScene
scenario for an interactive writing exercise that
will help to reinforce many of the themes pre-
sented in this chapter.
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 61 of 498 --

44
© Michael D Brown/Shutterstock.com
Our social tools are not an improvement to modern
society; they are a challenge to it.
—CLAY SHIRKY, Here Comes Everybody: The Power
of Organizing Without Organizations
CoaChing Tips
provide links to related
articles or sources.
Write a lead that gets to
the main point quickly.
Write short sentences.
Use strong verbs.
Write in a conversational
tone, the way you would
tell your reader a story.
Keep your blog short.
Write a clear headline for
your blog.
Plan images or videos for
tweets and posts.
Chapter 3
Social Media
part 1 	UnderStanding neWS
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 62 of 498 --

45	CHAPTER 3 	Social Media
the more you know, the less you may have to write about it.
“Short is in.
“Blogs are in.
“And.
“Tweets.
“R.
“In.”
That is how Jodi Enda, a writer for American Journalism Review, summarized
reporting and writing in this age of social media.
Social networking has changed the nature of journalism. Once a venue primar-
ily for keeping up with friends, social networking sites are now essential journalism
tools for finding sources and sharing information with the public.
New social media sites and applications are also proliferating. Twitter and
Facebook lead the pack, but they’ve been joined by several other sites for posting
images, videos and text.
Defining social meDia
What is social media? Traditional media are print, broadcast or online forms of pub-
lication. Social media are Web-based technologies that provide ways people may con-
nect, create and share content. With traditional media, people are receivers; with
social media they are contributors.
Social media guru Clay Shirky, a New York University professor, says “user-
generated” content revolutionizes communi-
cation by shifting power from the select few
who have publishing capabilities to every-
one. In his book Here Comes Everybody: The
Power of Organizing Without Organizations, he
writes:
The media landscape is transformed,
because personal communication
and publishing, previously separate
functions, now shade into one another.
Communications media was between
one sender and one recipient. This is
a one-to-one pattern — I talk and you
listen, then you talk and I listen. Broadcast
media was between one sender and many
recipients, and the recipients couldn’t talk Social media became a crucial part of the 2012 election in this
Republican Party command center.
Robert Neff/Creative Common
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 63 of 498 --

46	PART 1 	Understanding neWs
back. This is a one-to-many pattern — I talk, and talk, and talk, and all
you can do is choose to listen or tune out. The pattern we didn’t have until
recently was many-to-many, where communications tools enabled group
conversation. Everyone is a media outlet.
reporting with social meDia
Social media have become vital resources for breaking news in major news events,
especially during disasters. For the past few years, the Pulitzer Prize Board has rec-
ognized the importance of social media by awarding prizes to news organizations that
have used these tools.
Here are some of the social media reporting techniques the award-winning news
organizations used:
■■ The Denver Post won the Pulitzer Prize in 2013 for its coverage of a mass
shooting at a movie theater in Aurora, Colorado. “The entire first day of the
massacre was published on our digital platforms with updates virtually by the
minute. Our social media team was aggressive and creative,” the Post wrote in
its Pulitzer entry. The social media coverage included tweets, photos, videos,
interactive elements, and a live blog featuring conversations with reporters
and community members on Facebook.
■■ The Hartford (Connecticut) Courant, a Pulitzer finalist for breaking news in
2013, explained how it used social media to cover a tragedy at Sandy Hook
Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, where a gunman killed 20 chil-
dren and six adults: “We aggressively updated our online story, sent out text
messages and emails, posted powerful images, and engaged our readers on
Facebook and through Twitter.”
■■ ■The Tuscaloosa (Alabama) News, winner
for breaking news in 2012, was cited by
the Pulitzer Prize Board “for its enter-
prising coverage of a deadly tornado,
using social media as well as traditional
reporting to provide real-time updates,
help locate missing people and produce
in-depth print accounts.” The News also
used social media to provide informa-
tion on emergency resources.
Here are some other guidelines for
reporting with social media:
■■ ■Research the topic by finding tweets or
blogs.	One of many homes destroyed by a tornado in Tuscaloosa.
Tim Burkitt/Federal Emergency Management Agency
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 64 of 498 --

47	CHAPTER 3 	Social Media
■■ During the reporting process, post tweets to seek sources and update information.
■■ Connect with eyewitnesses, and post questions such as these on Twitter or
Facebook: Did you witness the event? How do you know that?
■■ Ask permission before you use any photo or video submitted by users.
facebook
Those are just a few of the recent examples where social media played a critical role
in reporting. But one of the defining moments of social media came with the use of
Facebook in the aftermath of the shooting rampage at Virginia Polytechnic Institute
in 2007, when 32 people were killed before the assailant shot himself. Telephone
communication was limited that day, so students used Facebook to let friends and
families know they were safe and to seek information about other students whose
fate was not yet known. “To everyone I haven’t talked to yet, I’m okay,” one student
wrote in a Facebook group called “I’m okay at VT.” Journalists searched through pro-
files and blogs on that site and others to find sources and quotes for their stories
about the massacre.
Facebook has since become the most popular social media site in the world, with
more than 800 million users. If Facebook were a country, it would be the third most
populated one in the world, exceeded only by China and India. Although Facebook began
as a network to connect with friends, businesses, government
agencies and all types of organizations now use it as a way to
establish a presence, spread a message and communicate. It is
also the largest social networking site among U.S. adults, and
almost half of the users get their news from Facebook, accord-
ing to a report from the Pew Research Center.
twitter
Twitter has become another crucial tool to report break-
ing news as it happens. With the limit of 140 characters
(including punctuation and spaces) allowed for a message,
it might not seem as though you could convey much infor-
mation, but the brevity of a tweet can be deceptive. Many
Twitter posts, called “tweets” are simply headlines that link
to full stories — often posted on Facebook pages or web-
sites. You can use abbreviations — a form of shorthand to
squeeze in more information. Tweets also feature hashtags,
represented by the # symbol, which are used to mark key
words or phrases to related topics in other tweets.
The trial of Steven Hayes was an example. The courtroom
was packed. Reporters had lined up at 5:30 a.m. to get a seat
Students comfort each other at a convocation at
Virginia Tech University to honor the 33 people
who died in a campus shooting.
Eric Draper/U.S. White House
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 65 of 498 --

48 	part 1 UnderStanding neWS
in the small New Haven, Connecticut, courtroom where Hayes was on trial for a grisly
crime. He had invaded a physician’s home, killed the doctor’s wife and two daughters and
set the house on fire. The trial wasn’t televised. Cameras weren’t allowed in the court-
room. But thousands of people witnessed the trial as reporters tapped their smartphones
or iPads to send minute-by-minute details of the trial to Twitter.
Consider these tweets with the hashtag #Hayes, which indicates a connection to
other tweets about him:
We’re in session; #Hayes enters glaring at front row of reporters as he
moves to his seat.
Judge Blue: “Your fate is now in the hands of others. May God have mercy
on your soul.”
#Hayes: Words can never express what I feel for what I’ve done.
Twitter is also a way to get sources and eyewitness accounts quickly during a disaster,
an accident or any local event. When a man jumped off an overpass on I-45 in Houston,
traffic was stopped for three hours, but Houston Chronicle readers learned about it
shortly after the incident occurred if they checked the Twitter feed at twitter.com/@
HoustonChron. From trials to traffic, Twitter connects the community to the newsroom.
Here’s how it works:
After you create a Twitter account, you can search for people whose tweets you
want to read. To “follow” people or organizations, click the link under their names. That
will take you to the Twitter member’s home page, where you can see his or her recent
tweets. When a username is preceded by the @ sign, it becomes a link to a Twitter page.
When you follow certain Twitter users, you will receive their tweets on your Twitter
home page. You can also “retweet” various user messages by adding them to your own
tweet feed — much the same as you would forward email to a group of people.
Although Twitter is considered a social networking site, it is not limited to social
connections. The network is used around the world by media, government agencies
and corporations as a way to communicate a lot of information in a little amount
of space. Twitter is considered a “microblogging” site, which is just a short form
of blogging. For more information on how to use this program, go to Twitter help
support.twitter.com/groups/50-welcome-to-twitter#.
writing for twitter
Twitter readers are scanners, so you need to write tweets like headlines that will grab
attention. Tweets are limited to 140 characters, so be cautious of length (although
Twitter will keep count and alert you when you try to post). Here are some writing tips:
■■ Read some Twitter posts before you begin to write.
■■ Find a focus. What are you trying to say and what is your point?
■■ Limit your tweet to one main point.
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 66 of 498 --

49	CHAPTER 3 	Social Media
■■ Put the strongest words at the beginning of your tweet.
■■ Use strong verbs.
■■ Don’t waste words — cut articles like “and,” and “the.”
■■ Use abbreviations only if they are clear. Some common ones are 2, b and u.
■■ Provide #hashtags, references to similar topics identified by the # symbol.
■■ Use a link shortening system such as bit.ly to abbreviate Web addresses.
■■ If tweeting photos, identify people with captions.
■■ Cite your sources; don’t plagiarize.
Sree Sreenivasan, a social media expert who headed digital media for Columbia
University, has created a success formula for tweets. “Make sure every one of your
tweets has at least one of these qualities: helpful, useful, informative, relevant, practi-
cal, actionable, timely, generous, credible, brief, entertaining, fun, occasionally funny.”
New social media sites continue to develop. As mobile media gain popularity, more
social networking sites will emerge, including geolocation services, such as Foursquare,
that can act like guidebooks on your smart phones. The future has no boundaries.
verifying social meDia
It is easy to find sources with social media, but it may be harder to verify the informa-
tion they provide. Checking accuracy of tweets or posts during breaking news is more
difficult, but just as essential as for any other news story. Try to contact the person who
sends a tweet, or get an email address or phone number so you can confirm information.
Steve Buttry, a journalism trainer and digital media specialist, offers these tips for
verifying information from tweets and other social media sites:
■■ Develop Twitter sources that you know are reliable.
■■ Check the profile of a contributor to Twitter.
■■ Check whom the person follows and who follows him, as well as who can vouch
for this person; and check the person’s previous tweets.
■■ Check the time of a tweet during breaking news to determine whether the
person could be an eyewitness, and try to determine the person’s location.
■■ Check for photos, especially during a breaking news event.
■■ Check whether you can corroborate this account with other users.
curation
Creation versus curation: Much of the information you send or receive on social
media is what you create or share with others. But posts, pictures and video on social
media sites also lend themselves to a way of sharing called “curation.” When you
gather information from various sources on the Web and organize it around a topic
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 67 of 498 --

50	PART 1 	Understanding neWs
to present or share, you are curating it. And several social media sites have been cre-
ated for just that purpose. Journalists can use these curation sites by collating photos,
tweets, posts and items about a news story, and compiling a composite Web page.
Pinterest This site works like a bulletin board where you can “pin” information you
have curated to create a composite page, or you can pin an image or video that will
link back to the original website.
Storify Storify is a way to gather tweets, images and posts to create a story. Using
the Storify site, you click “Create Story,” enter a headline and drag posts from sites
like Facebook, YouTube and Twitter into your own story to create a timeline or a story
based on the events or information you gather.
Kelly Fincham, assistant professor of journalism at Hofstra University, says she
uses Storify in the classroom to help students explore sources and understand con-
text in news. “This is not cut-and-paste journalism. This is 21st century journalism
which uses social media as dynamic wire postings and lets the reporter curate the
content and provide context,” she wrote in a guide to Storify. “I think it recreates that
sense of discovery that we used to experience in research libraries. . . . We can explore
news stories through several different social media streams. We can curate those sto-
ries and then show the finished project to the world.”
blogs
Blogs, short for Web logs, are online journals or columns in which the writer expresses
opinions or describes personal experiences. Many media blogs are commentaries about
news topics. Although many blogs began as personal journals produced for friends and
M U LT I M E D I A C O A C H
techniques for
incorporating blogs and
comments in a news web-
site are similar for print and
broadcast news organiza-
tions. In a television news-
cast, the reporter or anchor will usually refer
viewers to the website, where links, polls or
surveys and comments are posted; print media
organizations also promote additional material
on their websites. To encourage reader and
viewer interaction via blogs or just comments,
consider using some of these techniques.
■■ Include a poll or quiz on the website.
■■ Promote added features to the news on the
website, such as a photo gallery, full texts of
speeches or documents.
■■ Add multimedia features — audio and
video — of news on the website.
■■ Update your stories frequently, especially for
breaking news.
■■ Offer links on your website to social media
sites — Twitter, Facebook and others.
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 68 of 498 --

51	CHAPTER 3 	Social Media
other people with common interests, they have become valuable ways journalists can
find sources. The other advantage of reading blogs for news tips is that they provide
insight into what readers and viewers are concerned about, much like letters to the editor.
Blogs also provide sources for human-interest stories on news events. Beat
reporters rely on blogs in their fields, and they can get additional help from the site
beatblogging.org. Most corporate and government agencies also offer blogs where
reporters can find valuable information.
With millions of blogs on every conceivable topic, how do you find them? In
addition to popular search engines, such as Google and Yahoo!, which feature blog
searches, these sites and programs can do the work for you:
■■ Technorati: A search engine that indexes millions of blogs and updates the
references by tracking posts and links to them.
■■ Permalink: These are URLs (Web addresses) that link to comments or related
sites. They are most often used in blogs.
■■ RSS: The letters stand for “Really Simple Syndication,” which is a program
that automatically sends information you requested to your computer or digital
media player. The RSS online tool can track information that changes, whether
it is in blogs or on websites, through an “aggregator,” which is a program that
compiles the information from the sites you have selected. It basically “feeds”
the information to your computer or portable media device. It can be used for
news summaries, blogs or podcasts, and audio or video digital files that can be
downloaded to your computer or portable media device.
■■ Trackbacks: These links at the end of a blog, like footnotes or references you
might put in a term paper, are similar to permalinks. Someone who posts a
comment to your blog can insert a link back to his or her comment or related
sites, provided that the software for both sites supports trackbacks.
blogs in public relations and marketing
Blogs are not limited to news and personal sites. Hill & Knowlton, one of the largest
public relations/marketing firms in the world, supports blogs and calls them “collec-
tive communication.” On its website, the company says,
Like many other companies, we believe that blogs have the potential to
become powerful communications tools. We have created this community
to optimize our consultants’ participation in the blogosphere. They can listen
to and learn from our audiences, while contributing their own insight and
experience. All our bloggers are employees of Hill & Knowlton somewhere in
the world and have signed up to a strict code of practice.
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 69 of 498 --

52	PART 1 	Understanding neWs
PRWeb, a wire service website that distributes news releases, also offers blogs in
a blogroll, a list of links to blogs that the service recommends. The Public Relations
Society of America offers a number of blogs, including prnewpros for new practi-
tioners, a blog to foster diversity, and another for professionals to share ideas. The
student chapter, PRSSA, also provides a blog and a social media toolkit.
Here’s some advice from PRSSA on how to write better blogs:
■■ Decide who your audience is, and tailor the content to it.
■■ Consider the three C’s: clear, concise, compelling.
■■ Connect with your readers. Comment on their blog posts, and encourage them
to comment on yours.
“Blogs will make or break your business,” according to Nora Ganim Barnes,
author of the study “Behind the Scenes in the Blogosphere: Advice from Established
Bloggers.” She said that consumers want to talk about products, and if they can’t talk
to the vendor, they will talk to others online in blogs.
ftc rules affecting bloggers and advertisers
If you write a blog or post a tweet that endorses a product on a social media site, you
have to disclose whether you received cash or gifts, or are employed by the company,
according to new guidelines that the Federal Trade Commission imposed in 2009.
The guidelines apply to bloggers and other users of social media. The FTC rulings
require companies to disclose their relationship with celebrities or other people who
endorse their products in advertisements in order to provide consumers with more
knowledge about the claims that are being made. Although the FTC guidelines are
not limited to social media, it was the first time in 30 years that the commission
revised its guidelines regarding testimonials and endorsements for advertisements,
a recognition of the impact of social media.
how to write blogs
A blog is an online conversation you are having with the reader. Consider it like a
telephone conversation; it’s a two-way communication where you say something and
hope for a response. You may use the first-person voice (I or me) because you are
expressing your thoughts, but you should not insert yourself into a news story. Some
blogs may just be one or two paragraphs with links to related stories, especially on
news items, whereas others can be a complete journal entry.
You don’t have to have any technical knowledge to create or publish your own
blog. Wordpress does that for you. Wordpress.com is free Web software you can use to
create your own blogs or websites, but you do need an Internet provider where you
can post your blog. Although it started as a blogging system, Wordpress now offers
complete content management, and many college newspapers use the program for
their websites. Blogger, a free program by Google, is another easy-to-learn site you
can use to create and host blogs (www.blogger.com).
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 70 of 498 --

53	CHAPTER 3 	Social Media
Here are some tips for writing your blog:
■■ Be brief. Blogs are not meant to be term papers.
■■ Write a clear headline that will hook the reader.
■■ Write a subhead or summary of key points.
■■ Use a strong lead. Consider a question, an anecdote or a dramatic factual lead
such as an unusual statistic.
■■ Use the word “you” to hook readers.
■■ Be clear. Use simple sentences and short paragraphs.
■■ Be focused. A blog should center on one main topic.
■■ Be careful; check your spelling and grammar. Informal communication in email
and blogs tends to be sloppy. Errors in spelling and grammar mar credibility.
■■ Be interesting. Provide something new or evocative if you are writing an opin-
ion about news. Write about a topic that would be of interest to other people in
your age group or community.
■■ Be accurate and fair. Don’t spread rumors or information that may not be truth-
ful. The basic guidelines of accuracy and fairness that apply to news stories
apply to blogs as well.
■■ Target your audience. Consider the people you are trying to reach, and write
about topics they would want to read, especially on social network blogs. If it is
a personal blog, what do your friends and family want to know? If it is a blog
intended for a public audience, ask yourself why anyone would want to read
your comments.
■■ ■Be conversational. Write as though you are talking to a friend.
■■ ■Add links to related sites or other blogs if relevant.
■■ ■Add a question or thought at the end that would elicit readers to post their
responses to your blog.
■■ Proofread.
poDcasts
If you don’t want to write a blog, you can hear
it or see it by producing it as a podcast. Once
a combination term for broadcast and iPod,
podcast is now a legitimate word. It has been
added to the New Oxford American Dictionary,
which defines it as “a digital recording of a
radio broadcast or similar program, made
available on the Internet for downloading to a
personal audio player.”
Although the original definition was con-
fined to audio files, definitions and uses of
Research and Writing Specialist Ernie Martz (left) and Social Media
Specialist Steve Crider (right) record a podcast for the Federal
Emergency Management multimedia site.
Courtesy of the Federal Emergency Management Agency
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 71 of 498 --

54	PART 1 	Understanding neWs
podcasts have expanded to include video. A video podcast is also called a “vidcast” or
“vodcast,” but whatever you call it, this form of media is now a common alternative
format on news sites as well as social networking sites.
You don’t need an iPod, a portable digital media player by Apple Inc., or an MP3
player, which also compresses audio files into digital form, to hear or view podcasts.
You can click onto a podcast in your computer and listen to it with software for hearing
audio or viewing video. You can also download a podcast to your computer and listen
to it or view it with free software such as iTunes, Quicktime or Windows Media Player.
E T H I C S
be careful what
you post on a blog, espe-
cially if you are seeking a
job. Employers have been
known to search popular
sites such Twitter and
Facebook when they are interviewing job candi-
dates. In addition, posting personal information
such as telephone numbers or addresses can
make it easy for sexual predators or other unde-
sirable people to contact you, despite attempts
by social networking sites to protect privacy.
Here are some other ethical issues relating
to social media:
■■ Plagiarism: Don’t take material from other
people’s blogs or websites and post the
information on your blog without attributing
it. Everything that is produced in a fixed form
(print or online) is protected by U.S. copyright
laws. That includes photos and videos —
unless you have permission or you receive
the information under a Creative Commons
license, where the contributor has given
permission for the material to be used. Check
whether it is authorized for personal use or
use with attribution, or whether it is fair use,
generally from a government site.
■■ Neutrality: Should staff reporters for TV
news stations and newspapers write blogs
that express their personal opinions when
they are supposed to be impartial in covering
the news? Several news organizations have
created policies addressing this issue, such
as this one from The New York Times: “If you
have or are getting a Facebook page, leave
blank the section that asks about your politi-
cal views. . . . Be careful not to write any-
thing on a blog or a personal Web page that
you could not write in the Times. Anything
you post online can and might be publicly
disseminated.”
■■ Is the information on blogs accurate or
based on rumors?
■■ Should journalists use sources from
social networking sites without contacting
the person who posted the information?
■■ Should blogs be edited or monitored for
standards of taste?
■■ How should editors deal with abusive posts
on websites that seek comments from read-
ers and viewers? This issue has become
a problem as interaction with readers and
viewers increases on websites that seek
comments, but staff to supervise the web-
sites is limited at most news organizations.
Because blogs and other forms of citizen jour-
nalism are evolving, media organizations are still
wrestling with solutions to these concerns.
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 72 of 498 --

55	CHAPTER 3 	Social Media
S O C I A L 	M E D I A
glossary
■■ ■Apps: Short for
applications, apps are
programs to download to
phones or tablet
computers to access media, music, games or
other Web-based items.
■■ Blog: The U.S. dictionary publisher
Merriam-Webster defines “blog,” as “a
website that contains an online personal
journal with reflections, comments and often
hyperlinks.” Also known as “Web logs,” or
“weblogs,” blogs have proliferated to such an
extent that they have their own world called
a “blogosphere,” which is a social network
of people who post blogs (bloggers). Other
blogs are more like essays commenting on
news or issues with links to related articles
or sources.
■■ Cloud computing: A way to securely
store and retrieve your computer information
and software on a Web server; the cloud is a
symbol for the Internet.
■■ Creative Commons: A copyright
licensing system that allows content
creators to specify whether and how they
want their material to be shared. All work
is automatically copyrighted once it is in
fixed form, but under this licensing system
the creator may decide whether the work
may be used with or without attribution,
shared, or used commercially, publicly or
privately.
■■ Crowdsourcing: Using a large group of
people to help gather or produce content with
social media. The technique is often used
by news organizations to get information
about tragedies, accidents or breaking news
stories.
■■ Facebook: The largest social network com-
pany based on technology that allows people
who join the group to interact and share infor-
mation. Facebook can include personal pages,
group sites and fan pages that gather “friends,”
people with whom you want to keep in contact.
■■ Flickr: A photo-sharing repository.
■■ Foursquare: A mobile application with a
built-in GPS (Global Positioning System). After
you “check in” to a location, the application
can broadcast your position to other people
you choose.
■■ Hashtag: The # symbol used to mark
keywords or other related topics in tweets or
other social media. You can add a hashtag
anywhere in the post to show similar topics
such as #jobs for a tweet related to job
searches.
■■ iPad: A tablet computer made by the Apple
Corp. Other companies also produce tablet
computers.
■■ iPhone: A phone, also made by Apple,
that was the first to introduce a multitouch
screen. This phone is considered a “smart-
phone” because with a simple touch you can
access applications. Other companies also
make these phones under different names.
■■ LinkedIn: A business-oriented network
generally used for professional profiles and
connections.
■■ Skype: A free videoconferencing program,
a division of Microsoft, that allows people to
communicate by voice and video calls.
■■ Twitter: A social network that limits
messages, called “tweets,” to 140 characters
(including punctuation and spaces).
■■ Wiki: A type of software that allows people
to add or edit information on a website.
■■ YouTube: A video-sharing site.
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 73 of 498 --

56	PART 1 	Understanding neWs
If you want to receive regularly updated information from podcasts of blogs
or news, you can subscribe to a website that contains an RSS reader, the program
that compiles sites you select and automatically delivers them to your computer or
portable digital device.
1 word association exercise:
■● Write five or 10 words that come to your mind
associated with these words (one minute for each
word association): snow, happy, sad, dreams,
goals, pain.
■● Now expand your thoughts to one paragraph
(three minutes for each idea): I am afraid of . . .
I hope to be . . . The best gift I received . . . My
worst experience . . .
2 blog: Write a blog on a personal topic that you
think might be of interest to a campus audience.
You can expand some of the thoughts you just
wrote in exercise 1 into a blog or write about a
new topic. Add a question at the end to solicit
responses to your blog.
3 twitter following: Create a Twitter account and
choose at least five people you want to follow.
Study their tweets. Write a critique of the tweeters.
4 tweets: Cover an event on campus (an athletic
event, a lecture, a demonstration or any other
event) and tweet about it in real time. If your
instructor wishes, critique each other’s tweets.
exercises
FeatUred Online activitieS: Log on to
the MindTap for Rich’s Writing and Reporting
News to access a variety of robust additional
material, including this chapter’s learning objec-
tives, activities, comprehension quizzes, and
more!
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 74 of 498 --

Chapter 4
Sources and
Online Research
CoaChing Tips
Use the matchmaking
technique: ask one source
to recommend another for
your topic.
Check previous stories
about the subject in your
organization’s databases.
Check any records or
documents related to your
story.
Check the internet and
social media.
Check the credibility of
websites before you use
information from them.
Attribute sources; avoid
anonymous sources.
57
Anonymous sources challenge our credibility with
readers.
—PETER BHATIA, Editor, The (Portland) Oregonian
© dny3d/Shutterstock.com
part 2 	COLLECTING INFORMATION
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 75 of 498 --

58	PART 2 	COLLECTING INFORMATION
Mark potter has covered stories for NBc, aBc aNd
CNN from all over the U.S. and other parts of the world. For
many years wherever he went, he took his source book, a worn 7-by-9-inch address
book held together by strips of packing tape. He called it his “bible” and said he
couldn’t function without it.
These days Potter uses Twitter and other social media for contacts, but he still uses
a traditional method of cultivating sources for his stories on NBC Nightly News and
www. NBCNews.com. He calls this technique “sponsorship.” It is basically a referral system.
He gets someone who knows him to sponsor, or recommend, him to the new source, or he
introduces himself to a new source by referring to a contact that the source might know.
For example, when Potter was working on a story about the problems of Haitians
in Miami, the Haitian refugees were illegal immigrants who were reluctant to talk to
him. Potter said they thought he was an immigration officer who might report them
to authorities for deportation. So Potter asked a community social worker who had
gained the refugees’ trust to recommend him to a Haitian who might speak with him.
The social worker introduced him to a Haitian named Pierre, but Pierre didn’t have
the information Potter wanted. So Pierre introduced Potter to his brother-in-law, who
then “sponsored” Potter by getting other Haitians to talk to him.
Potter cross-indexes his list of sources three ways — by name, occupation and
location. If he wants to contact an FBI agent he previously interviewed in Detroit
but whose name he may have forgotten, he looks up the agent’s name under “FBI” or
“Detroit.” Under each listing he records the source’s address and telephone numbers
for work and home and email addresses.
It’s not too early in your career for you to start a list of sources. The people you inter-
view in college, such as professors who are experts on foreign policy or the economy, may
be good sources for stories later in your career. Whether you keep your source list in your
cell phone, computer or online, you should back it up on a storage device. And although it
may seem old-fashioned in these days of digital devices,
it’s a good idea to have a printed copy of your source lists.
Social media like Twitter and Facebook make it
easier to get sources today than in the past, but it isn’t
as easy to check their validity, especially on deadline.
“Social networks should never be used as a report-
ing shortcut when another method, like picking up a
phone or knocking on a door, would yield more reliable
or comprehensive information,” according to social
media guidelines in the Associated Press Stylebook.
Good reporters still cultivate sources several ways —
in person, with records and online resources. You
can even find ready-made source books for jour-
nalists online, such as an extensive list of qualified	Mark Potter, NBC reporter (third from left).
Courtesy of Mark Potter
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 76 of 498 --

59	CHAPTER 4 	SourceS and online reSearch
experts in numerous fields collected by the Society of
Professional Journalists (www.spj.org/divsource-book
.asp). The National Scholastic Press Association and
the Associated Collegiate Press have combined to pro-
vide a Student Media Sourcebook (www.studentpress
.org/sourcebook). You’ll find these and other resources
on the website for this chapter.
Before you begin reporting for any assignment,
check previous stories about the topic in databases and
do online research. Most print and broadcast news-
rooms maintain databases of stories the newspaper or
television station has done, so it is easy to search for
previous stories about the person or topic. If you are
searching online for a source, check to make sure that
the source is the person you want; many people have
the same name, and the information you retrieve may
not be for the correct source. For example, if you are
checking a source in LinkedIn, a network often used by
professional people, the profile might include a photo,
which is helpful if you know the person. It will also list
the person’s job title and previous jobs.
When you are assigned to a breaking news event,
such as a fire or accident, you may not have time to
check previous stories before you leave the office. But
you should check them before you begin writing. The
building that burned may have had problems with
sprinkler systems or previous fires.
The same recommendation applies to crime stories.
A suspect arrested on charges may have been arrested previously for the same or other
charges. If you find a story about a suspect’s previous arrest, make sure to find out if
the charges were dropped or what happened in the case.
Use caution: Newsroom files and videotapes may not be up to date, and follow-up
stories may not have been written or aired about crime suspects. Even more problem-
atic is the Web, which can archive everything, but if the document is not dated, you
may not be getting the most accurate information.
hUMaN soUrces
News writing needs human sources to make the story credible and readable. Information
from eyewitnesses and participants lends immediacy to a story, and direct quotes and
sound bites make a story interesting. You can find human sources in a number of ways.
■■ News releases: All news releases list a contact person, usually a public infor-
mation officer or public relations contact. Whenever possible, ask to speak to
the people mentioned in the news release.
Don’t rely only on social media for sources. Check
sources by telephone or in person when possible.
Rob Melendez/Federal Emergency Management Agency
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 77 of 498 --

60	PART 2 	COLLECTING INFORMATION
■■ Up and down the ladder: Who’s in charge of the organization or department?
You could start at the top by contacting the department head. On many other
stories, you should also go down the ladder and try to contact the person clos-
est to the incident. For example, if you are writing a police story, try to contact
the officer who was at the scene. If you are writing about a study, contact the
professor or researcher who did the study.
■■ Names in the news: If you read or view a news story from a newspaper, tele-
cast, website or social media site, don’t just quote the news story. Contact the
primary source — the person involved.
■■ Administrative assistants: Get to know officials’ administrative assistants,
sometimes still called “secretaries.”
■■ Community and campus leaders: Find out who are the leaders of groups in
your community and campus.
■■ Self-sponsorship: If you have reported and written a previous news story
about a subject of interest to the source you are trying to contact, you can
sponsor yourself. When you contact the source, introduce yourself by referring
to the relevant article or newscast you reported.
■■ Matchmaking: Once you have contacted a source and want to find others, use
the matchmaking technique, which is related to the sponsorship method. Ask
the source who else you might contact about the situation.
■■ Fairness: If you are writing a story involving conflict, find sources that have the
opposing points of view. Do not report any accusations about a person without
contacting the target of those comments.
■■ Primary and secondary sources: When you are conducting an interview, if
your source says something about another person, particularly if it is deroga-
tory or controversial, make sure that you check with that other person. The
first source’s statements not only could be wrong; they could also be libelous.
You should even check out written information about sources, especially online
information, to make sure it is accurate.
■■ Blogs: Postings on the Internet from people who have written blogs about an
issue can be good sources for you to contact. Don’t consider information from
blogs as accurate news. Blogs are usually opinion columns and personal reflec-
tions, but they can be valuable for finding human sources.
data soUrces
As more news organizations convert to digital delivery of their publications, data
are becoming more common additions to news stories, especially on the Web. In
the past databases were primarily used in investigative reporting, but these days
data sources are readily available in publishable formats, including charts and
infographics.
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 78 of 498 --

61	CHAPTER 4 	SourceS and online reSearch
Data-driven journalism is the future. Journalists need to be data-savvy. It used
to be that you would get stories by chatting to people in bars, and it still might
be that you’ll do it that way some times. But now it’s also going to be about
poring over data and equipping yourself with the tools to analyze it and picking
out what’s interesting. And keeping it in perspective, helping people out by
really seeing where it all fits together, and what’s going on in the country.
— Tim Berners-Lee, Founder Of The World Wide Web. From The Data Journalism Handbook,
a free resource at datajournalismhandbook.org
Getting the data to accompany your story
is now a standard part of the reporting pro-
cess. And getting that data is easier than ever,
especially from several government resources.
For example, if you are writing a story
about a rape or some burglaries on your
campus, you’ll want data to answer these
questions: How extensive is this problem?
How many other crimes have been commit-
ted at your school? Your first step should be
to check with your university’s police depart-
ment, which is required to keep a record of all
crimes and report them to the U.S. Department
of Education, where you can also get the infor-
mation for your school or any others. Access
the Campus Safety and Security Data Analysis
tool at ope.ed.gov/security.
From finding the most popular baby
names 	to 	block-by-block 	damage 	from
Hurricane Sandy that devastated parts of New
York and New Jersey, you can find the data and
infographics at data.gov, a U.S. government
data site.
And if you are writing about your commu-
nity or any place you are considering for a job or
a new home, you can research all the statistics
about it with a few keystrokes at the U.S. Census
American 	FactFinder 	website 	(factfinder2
.census.gov/faces/nav/jsf/pages/index.xhtml).
With all that information at your finger-
tips, you can easily add data to your stories.
But learning to use data is not a separate skill;
it’s just part of good reporting.
Some Colleges and Universities will offer you a tool to help you
find crimes on a campus.
U.S. Department of Education
From baby names to data about the number of parks in a city, the
government data tool can provide databases at your fingertips.
data.gov/U.S. Government
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 79 of 498 --

62	PART 2 	COLLECTING INFORMATION
aNoNYMoUs
soUrces
Many people will be willing to talk to you if
you promise not to use their names. An anon-
ymous source is one who remains unnamed.
(The terms “anonymous source” and “confi-
dential source” are used interchangeably by
most people.) But should you make this prom-
ise? Most editors today would say no, unless
there is no other way to get the information.
And even then, many editors would refuse to
grant that immunity from identification. The
more you rely on unnamed sources, the less
credibility your story has.
The Associated Press policy on anony-
mous sources is as follows: “Reporters should
proceed with interviews on the assumption
they are on the record. If the source wants to set conditions, these should be negoti-
ated at the start of the interview. At the end of the interview, the reporter should try
once again to move some or all of the information back on the record.”
This Census database provides information about population
and most other statistics about communities.
U.S. Department of Commerce
S o C i A l M e d i A
WheN a
sUicidal pilot
crashed a small plane into
an office building in Austin,
Texas, the local newspaper
gained hundreds of sources
in a matter of minutes. Robert Quigley, then social
media editor for the Austin (Texas) American–
Statesman newspaper, sent out a Twitter
message asking the 20,000 people who follow
the paper on its social media site if they had
witnessed the incident. Photos and eyewitness
accounts poured into the paper from its Twitter
users. Social media sites have created opportuni-
ties for journalists to connect with the public on
an unprecedented level, said Quigley, now senior
lecturer at the University of Texas at Austin.
That’s just one example of how social media
can provide instant sources for journalists on a
breaking news story. Twitter, Facebook, YouTube
and other social media sites are commonly used
sources for journalists. As sources multiply on
social media sites, keeping track of them gets
more difficult. But for every problem, a new site
springs up to offer solutions. These are just two
sites that will find or coordinate your sources.
■■ To search for people on all social network
sites or blogs, a search engine called yoName
will find them (www.yoname.com).
■■ To find the business or professional
background of a source, check LinkedIn
(www.linkedin.com).
Copyright 2016 Cengage Learning. All Rights Reserved. May not be copied, scanned, or duplicated, in whole or in part. Due to electronic rights, some third party content may be suppressed from the eBook and/or eChapter(s).
Editorial review has deemed that any suppressed content does not materially affect the overall learning experience. Cengage Learning reserves the right to remove additional content at any time if subsequent rights restrictions require it.

-- 80 of 498 --

