

-- 1 of 174 --

SEO 2025
Learn Search Engine Optimization
With Smart Internet Marketing Strategies
Expanded & Updated – 2025 Edition
Adam Clarke

-- 2 of 174 --

Simple Effectiveness Publishing, Publisher.
Cover Design: Simple Effectiveness Publishing.
Production and Composition: Simple Effectiveness Publishing.
SEO 2025: Learn search engine optimization with smart internet marketing strategies. Copyright ©
Adam Clarke. All rights reserved.
This title, its contents, cover design, likeness, and associated marketing materials are the intellectual
property of its copyright holders; the author, and the publishing company. Copyright infringement,
reproductions, or translations of any part of this work without the permission of the copyright owner
is unlawful, per Sections 107 and 108 of the 1976 United States Copyright Act.
Adam Clarke completed a Digital Marketing certificate from Google’s Digital Garage accredited by
the Interactive Advertising Bureau Europe and The Open University and is a member of the Digital
Analytics Association.
SEO 2025: Learn search engine optimization with smart internet marketing strategies.
Adam Clarke
Kindle ASIN B00NH0XZR0

-- 3 of 174 --

Table of contents.
Table of contents.
Introduction to the updated edition.
Chapter 1: Introduction to how Google works.
Old-school methods no longer work.
Google updates and how to survive them.
Authority, expertise, trust, relevance & user experience. Five powerful SEO strategies explained.
How Google ranks sites right now—Google’s newest top 10 ranking factors revealed.
Google's Mobile-First Index.
Google’s use of machine learning technology to power the search results.
Google understands how humans speak.
Google speaks like a human.
How to stay ahead of Google’s updates.
Chapter 2: Keyword research. The most important step of SEO.
Why is keyword research so important?
What exactly is a keyword?
Mastering keyword intent.
Semantic keywords, entities, and ontologies.
How to generate a massive list of keywords.
How to find keywords that will send traffic to your site.
How to find keywords for easy rankings.
Chapter 3: On-page SEO. How to let Google know what your page is about.
How to structure your site for easy and automatic SEO.
How to get more people clicking on your rankings in Google.
Load speed—Google magic dust.
The usual suspects—sitemaps.xml and robots.txt.
Duplicate content—canonical tags and other fun.
Usability—the new SEO explained.
Mobile support—important SEO explained in simple language.

-- 4 of 174 --

Google's Search Quality Guidelines — and how to use them to your advantage.
Readability — SEO for the future.
How to accelerate traffic and rankings with content marketing.
HTTPS & SSL certificates.
User Behavior Optimization—how to use Google’s machine learning technology to your advantage.
Google's Core Web Vitals.
Voice search optimization, how to target voice search results.
Chapter 4: Link building. How to rank extremely high on Google.
Why is link-building so important?
The dirty little secret no one wants to tell you about link building.
How to acquire links and what to avoid in link building.
Anchor text. What's all the fuss?
Simple to advanced link-building strategies.
Harnessing the power of digital PR for SEO.
Link outreach—scaling up high-quality link-building campaigns.
How to get links from major news outlets for free.
Additional link-building opportunities.
Chapter 5: Social media & SEO.
Is social media important for SEO?
Twitter & SEO: harnessing the tweet.
Facebook & SEO.
Other social networks.
Social media analytics.
Chapter 6: Web analytics in a nutshell. How to measure your success.
Tracking your search rankings.
Why use Google Analytics?
How to use Google Analytics.
Acquisition.
Organic Search.
Segments.
Common web analytics terms explained.
Leveraging AI and machine learning for new insights.
Web analytics in the era of user privacy.

-- 5 of 174 --

Other web analytics tools.
Chapter 7: Troubleshooting common SEO problems & how to fix them.
What to do when your site is not listed in Google at all.
What to do when your business is not ranking for your own business name.
What to do when your rankings have dropped off.
How to seek professional help for free.
Chapter 8: Local SEO. SEO for local businesses.
Why use local SEO?
How to rank high with local SEO.
Getting started with local SEO.
Building citations.
Encouraging reviews.
Supercharging local SEO with photos and videos.
Local SEO ranking checklist & essential resources.
Chapter 9: How to dominate search with rich results.
What are rich results?
Why you need to focus on rich results.
Why use structured data and JSON-LD?
How to get started with JSON-LD.
How to target featured result rankings in Google’s search results.
How to target “People also ask” and question-based rich results.
Facebook Open Graph.
Chapter 10: Technical SEO. Turbocharge Your Performance.
Crawling, Indexing, and Accessibility.
Site structure and URL optimization.
SSL, meta tags, HTML optimization, and internal linking.
Content and quality control.
Mobile responsiveness and speed optimization.
Enhancing crawlability: sitemaps, robots, and errors.
Essential tools for SEO technical audits.
Bonus chapter 1: Google's algorithm updates.
Google's Gemini versus ChatGPT - the vicious battle of the AI chatbots.

-- 6 of 174 --

Google's 2024 bulk email sender guidelines: the new rules of email engagement.
Google's March and June 2024 Spam Updates.
Google’s August 2024 Core Update: Winners, Losers, and Everything in Between
Keeping up-to-date with Google's updates.
Google’s 2025 updates—what’s on the horizon?
Bonus chapter 2: The quick and dirty guide to pay-per-click advertising with Google Ads.
Why bother with pay-per-click advertising?
Which is the best PPC provider to start with?
Ensuring success with research and a plan.
How to choose the right kind of keywords.
Structuring your campaign with ad groups.
How to crush the competition with killer text ads.
How much to pay for keywords?
Google Ads settings for getting started.
Optimization tips for tweaking your campaign for better profit.
Further Google Ads resources.
Bonus: Free SEO for beginners video course.
Get the free SEO checklist, link-building resources, and more...
Final thoughts & tips.
We've covered a lot of ground.
Corrections, feedback & questions.
What to do next.

-- 7 of 174 --

Free SEO for beginners video course, checklist
and resources at the end of this book.
The free SEO for beginners video course and SEO checklist are available
for readers at the end of this book.
I've also uploaded the following resources to my website (free for readers of
this book), including...

-- 8 of 174 --

- SEO for beginners video course (worth $99).
- SEO checklist (worth $99).
- SSL upgrade checklist to hand to your developer.
- Google review request card for local businesses.
- List of business directories for local businesses.
- Guest post opportunities for building links.
And much more!...
I recommend reading the book first, and accessing the resources when you
finish reading. Don’t forget to download your resources when you finish
reading the book.

-- 9 of 174 --

Introduction to the updated edition.
So, you've picked up SEO 2025 and decided to learn search engine
optimization. Congratulations! SEO marketing has changed my life, and it
will change yours too.
Over 20 years ago, I achieved my first number-one ranking in Google for
my family's home business. The phone started ringing with new customers
every day, and I was hooked.
Since then, I have used search engine optimization to grow everything from
small family-owned businesses to hotel chains and large international
fashion brands. One thing that never ceases to amaze me is the power of
SEO for growing any business. I have grown small businesses into giant
companies in just one or two years, simply by working the site up to the top
position in Google.
Unfortunately, learning SEO and Internet marketing is difficult for many
business owners, Internet marketers, and tech heads.
I have a theory on why this is so...
Sifting through the information flooding the Internet about SEO is
overwhelming. In many cases, advice online is outdated or misleading. And
the constant updates by Google make it hard for SEO beginners and gurus
alike to keep up with what works.
SEO can be simple and used by anyone to rank at the top of Google, grow
their business, and make money online. It's a matter of having up-to-date
information on how Google works, using effective techniques, and taking
action.

-- 10 of 174 --

This book has been expanded and updated to cover how SEO works now
and likely in the future. All of the resources and tools have been updated
and made relevant for 2025. It includes broader coverage of the basics and
is filled with more techniques for advanced users. And due to requests by
readers, it has been loaded with more tools and resources to save time and
get bigger results.
If you are a beginner, there is a small amount of technical information
included in this book. If you want to learn search engine optimization, this
can't be avoided. We've made these areas as simple as possible while
providing additional resources, including an SEO checklist, that will speed
up your journey to SEO mastery.
If you are an advanced SEO optimization professional, this SEO book
covers Google's latest updates, new SEO marketing best practices to refresh
your memory, solutions for common technical problems, and new tools and
resources to sharpen your skillset—all written in an easy-to-read format, so
refreshing your knowledge doesn't feel like a chore.
Whether you're a complete SEO beginner or a seasoned Internet marketing
veteran, SEO 2025 covers these areas and makes it as simple as possible to
achieve rankings, traffic, and sales.
Enjoy.
Adam Clarke
x.com/adamclarkeseo

-- 11 of 174 --

Chapter 1: Introduction to how
Google works.
You can feel like a dog chasing its tail trying to figure out how Google
works.
There are thousands of bloggers and journalists spreading volumes of
information that simply isn't true. If you followed all the advice about SEO
written on blogs, it's unlikely you would receive top listings in Google, and
there’s a risk you could damage your site performance and find it difficult
to rank at all.
Let me tell you a secret about bloggers…
Articles about the latest SEO updates, techniques, or tips are often written
by interns, assistants, and ghostwriters. Their job is to write articles. The
majority of blog posts about SEO are rarely written by experts or
professionals with the day-to-day responsibility of growing site traffic and
achieving top rankings in search engines.
Can you learn from someone who doesn't know how to do it themselves?
You can't. This is why you have to take the advice spread by blog posts
with a grain of salt.
Don't get me wrong. I love bloggers. There are bloggers out there who
practice and blog about SEO and do it well. But it has become increasingly
difficult to sort the wheat from the chaff.
Fear not. This chapter will disperse common misconceptions about SEO,
show you how to avoid falling into Google's bad books, and reveal how to
stay up to date with how Google ranks sites.
But first, to understand how Google works today, we must understand a
little bit about Google's history.

-- 12 of 174 --

Old-school methods no longer work.
In the early days of Google—around 25 years ago— Google started a
smarter search engine and a better experience for navigating the World
Wide Web. Google delivered on this promise by delivering relevant search
results.
Internet users discovered they could simply type what they were looking for
into Google—and BINGO—users would find what they needed in the top
results, instead of having to dig through hundreds of pages. Google's user
base grew fast.
It didn't take long for smart and entrepreneurially minded webmasters to
catch on to sneaky little hacks for ranking high in Google.
Webmasters discovered by cramming many keywords into the page, they
could get their site to rank high for almost any word or phrase. It quickly
spiraled into a competition of who could jam the most keywords into the
page. The page with the most repeated keywords won and rose swiftly to
the top of the search results.
Naturally, more and more spammers caught on and Google's promise as the
“most relevant search engine” was challenged. Webmasters and spammers
became more sophisticated and found tricky ways of repeating hundreds of
keywords on the page and completely hiding them from human eyes.
All of a sudden, the unsuspecting Internet user looking for “holidays in
Florida”, would find themselves arriving at a website about Viagra, Viagra,
Viagra!

-- 13 of 174 --

How could Google keep its status as the most relevant search engine, if
people kept on spamming the results with gazillions of spammy pages,
burying relevant results to the bottom?
Enter the first Google update. Google released a widespread update in
November 2003, codenamed “Florida”, effectively stopping spammers in
their tracks. This update leveled the playing field by rendering keyword
stuffing useless and restoring balance to the force.
And so began the long history of Google updates—making it hard for
spammers to game the system, and making ranking in Google a little more
complicated.
Google updates and how to survive them.
Fast forward 25 years and ranking in Google has become extremely
competitive and complex.
Simply put, everybody wants to be in Google. Google is fighting to keep its
search engine relevant and must constantly evolve to stay on the cutting
edge and always deliver great search results to users.
And now, Google is progressively using AI to power the search results.
Google even has an AI-powered spider called SpamBrain dedicated to
finding spammy and insecure websites and filtering them out of the search
results.
And every couple of months, Google releases a game-changing update that
often has website owners scrambling to fix their websites overnight or face
the very real risk of completely disappearing.
If it sounds cutthroat, that's because it is. But you can absolutely survive
and thrive through Google's updates.
How to recover from these updates, and how to avoid being penalized by
updates, is covered in later chapters. But for now, I want you to focus on
two things...
1. If you want to stay at the top of Google, never rely on one tactic.
2. Always ensure your search engine strategies rely on best practices.

-- 14 of 174 --

Authority, expertise, trust, relevance & user
experience. Five powerful SEO strategies
explained.
Google considerably evolved from its humble origins in 1998.
Eric Schmidt, the former CEO of Google, once reported Google considers
over 200 factors to determine which sites rank higher in the results.
Today, Google uses well over 200 factors. Google assesses how users are
behaving on your site, how many links are pointing to your site, how
trustworthy these linking sites are, how popular your brand is, how relevant
your page is, how old your site is, how fast your site loads… the list goes
on.
Does this mean it's impossible or difficult to get top rankings in Google?
No. In fact, you have the advantage.
Google’s algorithm is complex, but you don’t have to be a rocket scientist
to understand how it works. It can be ridiculously simple if you remember
just five principles. With these five principles, you can determine why one
site ranks higher than another or discover what you have to do to push your
site higher than a competitor.
Some of these principles have been around for donkey’s years, and others
just added in the past year or so, but these five principles summarize what
Google is focusing on in the algorithm now, and are the most powerful
strategies SEO professionals currently use to rank high in search engines.
The five principles are Trust, Authority, Expertise, Relevance, and User
Experience.
1. Trust.

-- 15 of 174 --

Trust is a common theme in Google's updates. Google wants to filter low-
quality sites out of the search results and have legitimate and trustworthy
sites showing up at the top. A site with well-researched, high-quality
content, and backlinks from reputable sources is considered trustworthy.
And having visible business details, contact information, and real personal
profiles on your site will increase its chances of ranking high.
It also helps if you make your website secure, adhere to national laws and
regulations, and have easily accessible legal policies and customer service
pages.
2. Authority.
Authority isn't just about how many social media followers and backlinks
you have, but also the quality and relevance of these elements. A site that
has a lot of links from authoritative sources and a lot of content by industry
experts will have a higher chance of showing up high in the search results.
3. Expertise.
Expertise is about your qualifications or expertise in your topic. Are you
credentialed, experienced, and have hands-on knowledge of your topics? If
so, you should make it clear on your website and you will perform better in
the search results.
4. Relevance.
Google awards the relevance of websites. It's why niche sites or local
businesses often show up higher than generic giants like Wikipedia.
For example, if you're an expert on pet training, you are probably going to
find it difficult to show up for searches about travel deals or accounting.
But you'll find it easy to show up for searches about anything related to
training pets.
Adding relevant content and relevant links to your site is a powerful tactic
for achieving high rankings.
5. User Experience.

-- 16 of 174 --

User experience isn't just about how users behave on your site. It includes
technical things like having good site speed and mobile support. If your site
offers a frictionless user experience, you're more likely to show up high in
the search results.
You can take advantage of this by improving your website’s user
experience, techniques we’ll cover later in this book.
How Google ranks sites right now—Google’s
newest top 10 ranking factors revealed.
You may have wondered if you can find out the exact factors in Google’s
algorithm.
Fortunately, there are a handful of industry leaders who have figured it out
and regularly publish their findings on the Internet. With these publications,
you can get a working knowledge of the factors Google uses to rank sites.
These surveys are typically updated every couple of years, but the biggest
factors don’t often change, so you can use them to your advantage by
knowing which areas to focus on.
Here's a handful of the strongest factors in Google's algorithm right now...
- The content on your site.
- The external links pointing to your website.
- The internal links in your website.
- The anchor text in your links.
- Having good Core Web Vitals.
- Having fresh content on your site.
- H1 tags - and the keywords in those tags.
- H2-H6 Tags - and the keywords in those tags.
- Having HTTPS on your website.
- Having a mobile-friendly site.
- Having good page speed.
- The relevance and distance of your business - if you are a local business.
If some of the terminology seems a bit technical, don't be alarmed. We'll
cover them later in this book.

-- 17 of 174 --

Simply, if your competitors have more of the above factors than you, they
will rank higher in Google's search results. If you have more of these
factors, you will rank higher.
Combine this knowledge with an understanding of the Google updates
covered in later chapters, and you will know what it takes to achieve top
rankings.
The above ranking factors are from the following industry survey. If you
want a deeper look into recent studies, you can browse the full reports by
searching for "Google Ranking Factors" in Google. I also cover the newest
updates to Google’s algorithm in the Google Algorithm Updates chapter
later in this book.
The Google Algorithm Ranking Factors - Search Engine Journal
https://www.searchenginejournal.com/ranking-factors/
Google's Mobile-First Index.
Historically, Google primarily used the desktop version of a page's content
when calculating the search results. Since the majority of users now access
Google via a mobile device, Google primarily relies on the mobile version
of a page's content to calculate the results.
Want simple language? Google uses the mobile version of your website as
the first touchpoint in calculating the search results..
It makes sense when you think about it. The vast majority of the Internet's
users are mobile users. To ensure smartphone addicts are delivered with
better results on the move, it makes sense for Google to make mobile the
highest priority in the algorithm, with desktops the second priority for
Google (and not the other way around).
If you haven't jumped on the mobile bandwagon by now—with mobile
traffic making up around 70%-80% of traffic for most websites—you're
missing out on traffic this very second and you may find it hard to appear in
the search results at all.

-- 18 of 174 --

Fortunately, there's an elegant solution discussed in the mobile SEO section
in the on-page SEO chapter, but I'll let Google spokesperson Gary Illyes
take the reins, with a direct quote from a discussion about this technology...
"If you have a responsive site, then you're pretty much good to go. Why?
Because the content on your desktop site will be pretty much the same as on
your responsive site. The structured data on your desktop site will be the
same.”
In other words, if your site is responsive and supports mobile users, you can
lie back and enjoy a Piña Colada, knowing your desktop-only competitors
will find it difficult to get a leg up in the search results, while you bask in
the glory of a mobile-first paradise.
Google’s use of machine learning technology to
power the search results.
When Google announced its machine-learning technology named
RankBrain, it had been secretly influencing the search results for several
months. Does this mean super-intelligent robots created by the genius
minds at Google are slowly taking over our search results?... Yes, it does.
Over 15% of Google’s daily searches have never been searched before. On
these never-before-seen types of searches, Google doesn’t have any
historical data to ensure it is delivering the right answer. Understandably,
Google needs a strong capability to understand the actual meaning behind a
user’s query as they type it into the search box, even if it has never been
searched.
Enter RankBrain, RankBrain forms connections between words to get a
better understanding of what a searcher wants, when the searcher only gives
Google a small amount of information. It then delivers a relevant answer,
even when the best answers don’t use the exact words the user searched for.

-- 19 of 174 --

In the above example, simply by searching “fastest runner” the first search
result lists Usain Bolt at the top of the search results. That’s some solid
guesswork from Google! We can see Google’s strong capability to infer the
actual meaning behind our search, even though I only hinted at the person I
am searching for. This is Google’s RankBrain technology at work, forming
connections behind the scenes. As popular trends come and go, this
matching technology is automatically applied in new searches and
organically changes to adapt to the times.
Ever since Google released RankBrain, Google has been gradually working
new A.I. and machine learning technologies into the search results. The
new technologies help Google to understand more complicated searches,
deliver more relevant results to users' questions, and strengthen Google's
status as the world's most advanced search engine.
The overall impact on business and website owners has been positive,
allowing websites to show up at the top of the search results for more
searches.
Google understands how humans speak.

-- 20 of 174 --

Let's face it, we're often lazy about how we use the Internet. Getting the
laptop out feels like a drag and we're shouting shorthand voice searches into
our phones like, "movie 1990s people experiment dying Kiefer Sutherland",
expecting Google to do the heavy lifting...
And it does! Displaying the Wikipedia entry for the 1990's film "Flatliners",
a cult classic about medical students experimenting with near-death-
experiences. On the Flatliners Wikipedia page, the word "experiment"
appears only once, but Kiefer Sutherland appeared in over 29 movies in the
1990s, in which lots of characters died. Notice how I accidentally typed in
the 1980s and Google figured it out, anyway? Solid work by Google.
To combat increasing ambiguity in searches that RankBrain can't handle—
and just getting a better grasp on human language—Google developed the
biggest leap forward in search technology called... BERT.
Or for short, Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers... A
machine-learning technology to better understand human language.

-- 21 of 174 --

Before BERT, Google would previously struggle with searches like "can
you get medicine for someone pharmacy", delivering a non-specific result
about getting prescriptions filled. It could figure out the main topic of the
search. But it had difficulty picking up the nuance.
After BERT, Google understands the searcher's intent much better, now
delivering a result about whether a patient can send a friend or family
member to get their prescription filled.
RankBrain and BERT round out Google's strong capability at
understanding searches much like a human, powered mostly by AI
technology.
Google speaks like a human.

-- 22 of 174 --

Google's latest advancement, AI Overview, is changing how we search
online. Now Google doesn't just understand like a human but speaks like a
human too.
For some searches, Google now presents an AI generated answer above the
search results.
AI overviews's core strength lies in its ability to reply to questions
concisely. This allows us to ask complicated questions, and get clear
answers that would be otherwise difficult to find with traditional search
results.
If you have no idea what I'm talking about, it's possible you haven't enabled
AI overviews, because it's still an experimental feature. The following
resource will tell you how to set it up.
AI Overviews and more in Search Labs
https://support.google.com/websearch/answer/13572151
The impact on SEO strategies.
This shift toward an human-like search experience has turned the SEO
industry upside down.

-- 23 of 174 --

The focus of the SEO practitioner now goes beyond optimizing for
keywords and backlinks. Instead, there's a growing emphasis on creating
content that feels like it was written by a human, incorporating elements
like expert opinions, well-researched content based on first-hand
experiences, and compelling data. Great content delivered at a quality
worth paying for is often rewarded with backlinks and search traffic. As a
result, SEO professionals adapted and evolved into content marketers.
AI technologies like ChatGPT and Gemini have become essential tools for
every SEO and marketer, to get through their work faster, and with arguably
better quality (when done well, of course).
One thing is unlikely to change: Google's reliance on revenue from
advertiser clicks. The majority of Google's ad revenue comes from people
clicking on the sponsored links in Google's search results. Which means the
traditional list of links in Google is unlikely to go away any time soon.
Google’s Gemini.
Gemini is Google's answer to competition from AI chatbots like ChatGPT.
It's an AI assistant you can have a conversation with, get answers to
complex questions, write code, and create content.
Gemini goes understands not just words, but conversations, images, code,
and audio. Gemini can reason, it can follow instructions—you can even get
it to write blog posts. All in an easy chat interface.
ChatGPT and Gemini are changing how we use the Internet. Search users
are becoming multi-modal - using Google and other search engines for
simple questions, and using chat assistants for complex multi-step
questions, content creation, write code, and sometimes just to have a chat!
How to stay ahead of Google’s updates.
Now and then, Google releases a significant update to its algorithm, which
can have a massive impact on businesses from any industry. To hone your
SEO chops and make sure your site doesn't fall into Google's bad books, it's
important to stay informed of Google’s updates as they are released.

-- 24 of 174 --

Fortunately, almost every time a major update is released, those updates are
reported on by the entire SEO community and sometimes publicly
discussed and confirmed by Google staff.
A long-extended history of Google’s updates would fill this entire book.
But with the resources below, you can stay abreast of new Google updates
as they are rolled out. This is essential knowledge for anyone practicing
SEO, at a beginner or advanced level.
Keep your ear to the ground with these sources and you’ll often be
forewarned of future updates.
Search Engine Round Table
https://www.seroundtable.com/
Search Engine Round Table is a blog that covers the daily happenings in the
world of SEO. The author, Barry Schwartz, provides breakdowns and
summaries of Google's updates and is often one of the first places to break
news on major changes in the SEO industry.
List of Google Search Ranking Updates - Google Search Central
https://developers.google.com/search/updates/ranking
Wouldn't it be great if there was an official page where Google announces
its major updates to Google search? Well, there is. Google maintains an
official list of all the major updates (that Google wants us to know about).
It's a good resource to visit because whenever Google releases a massive
update, you can read the official documentation and guidelines about what
to do instead of playing guessing games.
The Keyword - Google
https://blog.google/
Google's public blog, The Keyword, publishes Google's major news and
announcements. Often big changes are reported here by Google before they
are rolled out, which makes it an important resource for staying up to date.

-- 25 of 174 --

Chapter 2: Keyword research. The
most important step of SEO.
Why is keyword research so important?
Keyword research is the most important step of every SEO project for two
reasons:
1. To discover relevant keywords with traffic. Otherwise, you could waste
lots of time and effort trying to rank for keywords that don’t generate any
traffic.
2. To identify high opportunity keywords. With many SEO tools available,
you can often find keywords with low competition that are easy to rank
high in the search results. This allows you to focus on securing easy-wins
first, before tackling the more long-term high difficulty keywords.
These two goals are the ultimate decider of how successful an SEO project
is.
This chapter will cover how to find the best keywords and how to avoid
spending time on the wrong keywords. First, we must define what a
keyword is.
What exactly is a keyword?
If you are an SEO newbie, you may be wondering—what is a keyword?
A keyword is any phrase you would like your site to rank for in Google's
search results. A keyword can be a single word, or a keyword can also be a
combination of words.
If you are trying to target a single word, look out! You will have your work
cut out for you. Single-word keywords are extremely competitive and
difficult to rank highly for in the search results.

-- 26 of 174 --

Head-term keywords are keywords with one to two words, i.e. classic
movies.
And long-tail keywords are keywords with three or more phrases, i.e.
classic Akira Kurosawa movies.
Mastering keyword intent.
The underlying reason behind a search is also known as the search intent.
It's about why that person is searching in the first place. If you can establish
the reason someone is searching and what they're looking for, and then go
out and create content that aligns perfectly with why that person is
searching, you're much more likely to show up higher in the search results.
If this sounds a little complicated, it's really quite simple if we look at the
different types of intent...
Informational intent.
These searchers are looking for information. Their queries are like “How to
bake a cake” or “What is the blockchain?”. They want to understand
something.
For informational keywords, your content should provide answers. Start
with a direct answer to the question and expand with thorough, easy-to-
understand explanations or instructions. Answer frequently asked or
common questions about your topic. And provide unique insights, data, or
references.
Navigational intent.
Users with navigational intent are using Google to navigate somewhere.
They are looking for things like “Instagram login” or “Download Zoom.”

-- 27 of 174 --

Customers often use Google to find a particular page on your site. You can
make things easier for Google by having a page that covers all the major
touchpoints on your site. A simple way to do this is to have a sitemap page
in your footer - an actual sitemap page built from HTML. And have it point
to the important pages on your site. You should also have a sitemap.xml
file, which we'll cover in later sections.
Commercial investigation.
Commercial investigation searchers are almost ready to buy but are still at
the research stage. They search for “best gaming laptops” or “Airpods Pro
reviews”.
Offer detailed, unbiased reviews and comparisons. Provide all the
information a buyer would need to make a good decision, including pros
and cons, user testimonials, and expert opinions.
Transactional intent.
This is when the searcher is ready to buy something. They're searching for
things like “Chuck Taylors free delivery” or “flowers same day delivery.”
They’re ready to buy and your content should make that as easy as possible.
Make the buying process simple and make the features and benefits of
shopping with you clear in the content. Answer burning questions - such as
shipping times, product features, warranty information, returns and refund
policies, and so on.
Semantic keywords, entities, and ontologies.
Times have changed since SEO was about cramming as many keywords
into a page as humanly possible.
Now, Google's algorithms look at the words on your page, and the
relevancy of those words to the user's search, to determine how well your
page covers the topic.

-- 28 of 174 --

To be specific, Google is looking at the semantic keywords and entities
covered in your content, to get an idea of what your page is really about.
And behind the scenes, Google has an understanding of the ontologies,
which is effectively an understanding of how the persons, places and things
relate to each other.
If jargon sometimes makes you feel dizzy, don't sweat it. I'll make it simple.
Entities are things. Ontologies are relationships. And semantic keywords
are words related to your topic.
Entities, ontologies, and semantic keywords help search engines understand
the meaning of your content.
What do semantic keywords mean?
Semantic keywords are the 'friends and family' of your main keyword.
For example, if your main keyword is 'coffee', semantic keywords might
include 'latte', 'espresso', 'coffee beans', 'fair trade', 'arabica', and so on. They
paint a clearer picture of what your content is really about, and how
extensive its coverage is. A page that really covers this topic should
naturally have those words on the page somewhere.
What are entities?
Entities are the 'who', 'what', 'when', and 'where' in your content. They are
the nouns and proper nouns—people, places, things, and concepts—that are
essential to the topic you're covering.
Search engines, like Google, use entities in their knowledge graph, which is
a big giant database of 'factual things'. It helps Google to provide factual
and instantaneous answers to informational-type searches.
Ontologies and how they relate.

-- 29 of 174 --

Ontologies are the relationships between entities. The natural connections
that occur between the things in your content.
This isn't really something you consciously target. The main thing to keep
in mind is that Google has a working understanding of the hierarchies and
relationships of the things that you cover in your website.
How to include the keywords into your content.
Naturally, finding semantic keywords and entities for your content is easier
when you use tools. You can use inspiration straight from the "People Also
Ask" or "Related Searches" sections in Google's search results to discover
semantic keywords. Or use a tool like AlsoAsked. And you can do a deep
dive on Wikipedia and Wikidata for ideas for the entities.
After you've identified your entities and semantic keywords, you want to
weave them naturally into your content. Don't force them; let them flow as
they would in a natural conversation. It's often easiest to keep a list of the
keywords visible while writing the article.
If you dial things up a notch, paid tools such as SurferSEO will go out and
find all of the semantic keywords and entities on competing pages, and it
will even write the article for you.
Semantic SEO resources
https://alsoasked.com/
https://www.wikipedia.org/
https://www.wikidata.org/
https://surferseo.com
How to generate a massive list of keywords.
There are many ways to skin a cat. The same is true for finding the right
keywords. Before you can find keywords with loads of traffic in Google,
you must first develop a list of potential keywords relevant to your
business.
Relevance is vital.

-- 30 of 174 --

If you spend your time trying to cast too wide a net, you can end up
targeting keywords irrelevant to your audience. For example, if you are an
online football jacket retailer in the United States, examples of relevant
keywords might be:
Buy football jackets
Buy football jackets online
Online football jackets store USA
Irrelevant keywords might be:
Football jacket photos
How to make your own football jacket
Football jacket manufacturers
How to design a football jacket
You can see how the first pool of keywords is more relevant to the target
audience of football jacket retailers, and the second pool of keywords is
related but unlikely to lead to customers.
Keeping relevance in mind, you must develop a list of potential keyword
combinations to use as a resource, so you can then go and uncover the best
keywords with a decent amount of traffic each month in Google.
Here are some powerful strategies you can use to generate this list.
1. Steal keywords from competitors.
If you're feeling sneaky, you can let your competitors do the heavy lifting
for you and snatch up keywords from their sites.
There are many tools out there created for this purpose. A simple, free tool
is the Keyword Extractor. If you enter a page into this tool, within seconds,
it will scrape a list of the keywords your competitor has optimized into their
page. You can then use this to bulk out your keyword list.
Keyword Extractor - Wordcount
https://wordcount.com/keyword-extractor

-- 31 of 174 --

While the Keyword Extractor is a lightweight tool for revealing keywords
your competitors have optimized into the page, a more robust tool is
Ahrefs’ Organic Keywords report. This tool estimates the keywords that are
sending the largest amount of traffic to competitors' websites. The estimates
are reasonably accurate and are a valuable resource for bulking keyword
lists.
While Ahrefs’ reports are powerful, they come at a cost. Monthly plans
start at $99 per month.
Ahrefs
https://ahrefs.com
2. Use AI chat tools like Gemini and ChatGPT to generate keyword
ideas.
When it comes to generating keyword ideas, AI chat tools Gemini and
ChatGPT can save a lot of time and effort.
These tools can churn out relevant and unique keyword ideas lightning-fast,
making your SEO game plan much easier to execute.
Let's put Gemini to the test with NFL merchandise as our focus.
When we type in "Give me a list of 30 core keywords for an NFL
merchandise store, that sells NFL Jerseys, NFL jackets, and so on," Gemini
flexes its AI muscles and returns this list of NFL-related keywords...
General NFL merchandise:
NFL merchandise
Football gear
Team apparel
Sports memorabilia
Fan clothing
Official team wear
NFL shop
Football fanwear
Game day gear
Team spirit

-- 32 of 174 --

Specific NFL clothing:
NFL jerseys
NFL jackets
NFL hats
NFL accessories
NFL t-shirts
Football jerseys
Custom NFL jerseys
NFL sweatshirts
NFL caps
Player jerseys
Other NFL items:
NFL collectibles
NFL gifts
NFL tailgating gear
NFL scarves
NFL bags
Football equipment
NFL team flags
NFL home decor
Licensed NFL products
Additional keywords:
NFL for [Team name] fans
Women's NFL clothing
Men's NFL clothing
Kids' NFL clothing
Plus size NFL clothing
NFL clearance sale
New arrivals NFL merchandise
NFL combine apparel
NFL draft apparel
NFL playoffs merchandise
While the keyword suggestions are nothing short of excellent, the one thing
you have to keep in mind with generative AI chat tools is you can't trust the
accuracy of the data.

-- 33 of 174 --

By all means, get keyword ideas, just don't trust any traffic or SEO
difficulty estimates that come out of these tools—we'll cover how to get
those in a minute anyway.
3. Brainstorm a master list of keywords.
Assuming competitors have been thorough with their research isn't always
the best strategy. By brainstorming combinations of keywords, you can
generate a giant list of potential keywords.
To do this, sketch out a grid of words your target customer might use. Split
the words into different prefixes and suffixes. Next up, combine them into
one giant list using the free Mergewords tool. With this strategy, you can
quickly and easily build up a massive list of relevant keywords.
Mergewords
https://www.toptal.com/marketing/mergewords
Prefix
- buy
- where do I buy
Middle word
- NFL jerseys
- NFL uniforms
- NFL jackets
Suffixes
- online
Combined keywords
- NFL jerseys
- NFL jerseys online
- NFL uniforms
- NFL uniforms online
- NFL jackets
- NFL jackets online
- buy NFL jerseys
- buy NFL jerseys online
- buy NFL uniforms

-- 34 of 174 --

- buy NFL uniforms online
- buy NFL jackets
- buy NFL jackets online
- where do I buy NFL jerseys
- where do I buy NFL jerseys online
- where do I buy NFL uniforms
- where do I buy NFL uniforms online
- where do I buy NFL jackets
- where do I buy NFL jackets online
- NFL jerseys
- NFL jerseys online
- NFL uniforms
- NFL uniforms online
- NFL jackets
- NFL jackets online
4. Going undercover and researching your niche.
With 5.3 billion active Internet users, there's a community of people
floating around on the web interested in what you’re selling—even if you're
selling leopard print dog watches!.. You've just got to go and find them.
Open up a few tabs and browse through online communities like Reddit,
Quora, Facebook Groups, Slack communities, and Twitter hashtags, going
through popular threads. Keep a close eye on popular and trending topics,
and questions with a tendency to resurface. You'll find burning questions
needing to be answered, generating the best kind of keyword ideas—ideas
directly from customers’ keyboards. You can discover additional niche-
specific forums with the following search queries:
"keyword" forums
"keyword" discussion board
"keyword" community
5. Use tools that reveal hidden trends on the web.

-- 35 of 174 --

Researching Internet trends and getting insights behind Google's search box
isn't a new idea, and fortunately, clever people have built powerful tools to
make this job easy. Add these tools to your keyword research arsenal. Not
only will you save precious time researching, but you'll also receive a ton of
relevant suggestions you wouldn't discover otherwise.
Ubersuggest.
https://neilpatel.com/ubersuggest/
No SEO guide would be complete without mentioning Ubersuggest. This
handy tool reveals autocomplete suggestions behind Google's search box. It
provides region-specific data for countries and languages all around the
globe, and the best part—it's free.
Answer The Public
https://answerthepublic.com/
Answer The Public crawls the Internet and generates automatic lists of
customers burning questions related to your keyword. Answer The Public
starts with phrases starting with common question-type words, such as
“how”, “when”, “can”, and so on, followed by your keyword. It provides
long lists of phrases containing prepositions, such as "can", "is", "with", and
"without", preceded by your keyword. And topping things off, it lists
common questions users type in Google, from a-to-z, after your keyword
(postpositions, if you want to talk fancy). In other words, it’s a giant
database of questions customers are asking about your topic.
Buzzsumo
https://buzzsumo.com/
Sometimes, ideas become popular on the Internet before being typed into
Google’s search box. You can get ahead of these trends with content
discovery tools like Buzzsumo. Buzzsumo lists content going viral over the
Internet right now. You can keep your finger on the pulse of what's hot
across the web even when other tools haven’t picked it up yet.
Use the above tools and you’ll have more than enough keywords, and
you’ll be ready to start finding which keywords have solid amounts of
traffic to send to your site.

-- 36 of 174 --

How to find keywords that will send traffic to
your site.
Now you have a list of keywords, you need to understand how much traffic
these keywords receive in Google. Without search traffic data, you could
end up targeting keywords with zero searches. Armed with the right
knowledge, you can target keywords with hundreds or thousands of
potential visitors every month.
Unfortunately, in recent years Google restricted access to the data behind
Google's search box, leaving us with two options for finding keyword
traffic data.
Firstly, if you have a Google Ads campaign running with Google and are
already spending a modest amount, then you’re in the clear, you can access
this info for free in their Keyword Planner tool. If this isn’t you, the other
option is to use a paid keyword research tool for a small monthly fee. Either
way, you need the traffic data behind your keywords otherwise you are
running blind.
1. Estimating keyword traffic data with Google’s Keyword Planner.
Google Ads Keyword Planner
https://ads.google.com/home/tools/keyword-planner/
As mentioned, to access all the juicy traffic data provided by the Google
Ads Keyword Planner tool, you need an active Google Ads campaign
running and must be spending a modest amount of money regularly. If this
is you, sign in, click on Tools in the top menu, click on “Keyword Planner”
then click on “Get search volume data and forecasts”, and copy and paste
your keywords into the box. Select your country, and then click the blue
“Get started” button. When finished, you will have the exact amount of
times each keyword was searched for in Google.
Mmm. Fresh data. This is just the kind of data we need.
Now we know which keywords receive more searches than others, and
more importantly, we know which keywords receive no searches at all.

-- 37 of 174 --

2. Estimating keyword traffic data with a paid tool like KWFinder or
Ahrefs.
KWFinder
https://kwfinder.com/
If you want a research tool with a stronger SEO focus, then you can use a
paid tool such as KWFinder or Ahrefs. You're not limited to these tools,
many alternatives are floating around that you can find with a couple of
Google searches.

-- 38 of 174 --

Using KWFinder as an example, after creating an account, simply log in,
select the local area you are targeting (i.e. Los Angeles, California, if that is
your focus), enter your keyword ideas, and download the juicy data. Now
you can ensure you spend time focusing on keywords with traffic potential,
as opposed to chasing after keywords with no traffic and no opportunity for
growing your business.
How to find keywords for easy rankings.
Now you need to find out how competitive your desired keywords are.
Armed with an understanding of the competitiveness of your keywords, you
can discover keywords you can rank high for in Google.
Let’s say you are a second-hand bookseller and you want to target “book
store online.” It's unlikely you are going to beat Amazon and Barnes and
Noble.
But, maybe there’s a gem hiding in your keyword list few people are
targeting. Something like “antique book stores online.”
You have the advantage if your competitors haven't thought of targeting
your keyword. You simply have to do better SEO than they are doing and
you have a really good chance of beating their rankings. Part of this
includes having a large keyword list for your research.
Next, you need to wash this list and separate the ridiculously competitive
keywords from the easy keywords no one is aggressively targeting.
There are many schools of thought on how to find the competitiveness of
your keywords. The most popular practices are listed below, with my
thoughts on each.
1. Manually going through the list, looking at the rankings, and
checking if low-quality pages are appearing in the top results.
This is good for a glance to see how competitive a market is. However,
unreliable and you need real data to rely on.
2. Using the competition score from the Google Ads Keyword Planner
tool.

-- 39 of 174 --

Don't be tempted. This is a common beginner's mistake, and sometimes
recommended as an easy way to judge SEO competitiveness for keywords
on some blogs, and it just simply doesn't work!
The competition score included in the Google Ads Keyword Research tool
is intended for Google Ads advertising campaigns only. It is an indication
of how many advertisers are competing for a particular keyword through
paid advertising. Completely irrelevant to SEO.
2. Using an SEO analysis tool, such as KWFinder ’ s SEO Difficulty
report or Ahref’s SEO Difficulty Score.
Now we’re talking. To get a realistic idea of your chances of ranking high
for a particular keyword, you need to understand the strength of the pages
currently ranking in the top 10 search results for that keyword.
A great tool for this is KWFinder ’ s SEO Difficulty report. With
KWFinder ’ s SEO Difficulty report, enter your keyword into their tool,
click “check difficulty”, and it will show vital stats for pages appearing in
the top 10.
Of these stats, the most important are Domain Authority, Page Authority,
Links, and Facebook Shares … If you don ’ t have high Domain Authority
or Page Authority—don ’ t freak out. If your site is more relevant to the
topic, you can often nudge your way up the results by creating great
content, focusing on building backlinks to your page, and improving your
social media activity.

-- 40 of 174 --

Alternatively, Ahrefs has a great keyword difficulty score with its keyword
tool. Enter your keywords into the Ahrefs keyword tool, and you can get a
general idea of how difficult it will be to rank high for those keywords, by
looking at the SEO difficulty score for each keyword.
You can also enter your website into Ahref’s Site Explorer tool, enter your
competitor's sites into Ahref's Site Explorer, and set targets for beating the
competition. This a great strategy for more difficult keywords.
Ahrefs
https://ahrefs.com/
You can find keywords competitors are using, how much traffic they are
getting from those keywords, and even where they get their links from!
Many keyword tools and site analysis tools can be found with a couple of
Google searches. Every SEO professional ultimately has a different favorite
tool they prefer, but in general, you'll find that Ahrefs is used for
intermediate to advanced SEO professionals, and Moz's Keyword Explorer
and KW Finder are used by beginners.
When finished reading this book, you can work through the keyword
research points in the free SEO checklist included at the end of the book,
with the process outlined in a step-by-step approach.

-- 41 of 174 --

Chapter 3: On-page SEO. How to let
Google know what your page is about.
On-page SEO is the process of ensuring your site is readable to search
engines. Learning correct on-page SEO is important in ensuring Google
picks up the keywords you want, and an opportunity to achieve easy wins
and improve your site’s overall performance.
On-page SEO has the following goals or actions:
1. Ensuring your site content is visible to search engines.
2. Ensuring your site is not blocking search engines.
3. Ensuring search engines pick up the keywords you want.
4. Ensuring site visitors are having a positive user experience.
You can do most on-page SEO yourself if you have experience working on
websites.
If you are not technically inclined, please note there are technical sections
in this chapter. You should read these so you understand what has to be
done to achieve rankings in Google. You can easily hire a web designer or
web developer to implement the techniques in this chapter after you know
what needs to be done.
How to structure your site for easy and automatic
SEO.
These best practices will ensure your site is structured for better recognition
by Google and other search engines.
1. Search engine-friendly URLs.
Have you ever visited a web page and the URL looked something like this:
https://www.examplesite.com/~articlepage21/post-entry321.asp?q=3

-- 42 of 174 --

What a mess!
These kinds of URLs are a quick way to confuse search engines and site
visitors. Clean URLs are more logical, user-friendly and search engine
friendly.
Here is an example of a clean URL:
https://www.examplesite.com/football-jerseys
Much better.
Take a quick look at Google's search engine results. You will see a very
large portion of sites in the top 10 have clean and readable URLs like the
above example. And by a very large portion… I mean the vast majority.
Most site content management systems have search engine-friendly URLs
built into the site. It is often a matter of simply enabling the option in your
site settings. If your site doesn't have search engine-friendly URLs, it's time
for a friendly chat with your web developer to fix this up.
2. Internal navigation
There is no limit on how to structure the navigation of your site. This can
be a blessing or a curse.
Some people force visitors to watch an animation or intro before they can
access the site. And in the process, make it hard for visitors, and confusing
for search engines, to read the actual content on the site.
Other sites keep it simple by having a menu running along the top of the
site or down the left-hand side of the browser window. This has pretty much
become an industry standard for most sites.
By following this standard, you make it significantly easier for visitors and
search engines to understand your site. If you intend to break this
convention, you must understand it is likely you will make it harder for
search engines to pick up all of the pages on your site.
As a general rule, making it easier for users makes it easier for Google.

-- 43 of 174 --

Above all else, your website navigation must be made of real text links, not
images.
If your main site navigation is currently made up of images, call your web
designer and change them to text now! If you do not have the main
navigation featured in the text, your internal pages will almost be invisible
to Google and other search engines.
For an additional SEO boost, include links to pages you want visible to
search engines and visitors on the home page.
By placing links specifically on the home page, Google's search engine
spider can come along to your site and quickly understand which pages on
your site are important and worth including in the search results.
How to make Google pick up the keywords you
want.
Many misconceptions are being circulated about what to do, and what not
to do when it comes to optimizing keywords on your page.
Some bloggers are going so far as telling their readers to not put keywords
in the content of targeted pages at all. These bloggers—I'm not naming
names—do have the best intentions and have taken the worry about
Google's spam detection to the next level. But it is madness.
Not having keywords on your page makes it difficult for Google to match
your page with the keyword you want to rank high for. If Google
completely devalued having keywords on the page, Google would be a
crappy search engine.
Think about it. If you search for “Ford Mustang 65 Auto Parts” and arrive
on pages without those words on the page at all, it's highly unlikely you've
found what you’re looking for.

-- 44 of 174 --

Google needs to see the keywords on your page, and these keywords must
be visible to your users. The easy approach is to either create content
around your keyword or naturally weave your keyword into the page. I'm
not saying your page should look like the following example.
“Welcome to the NFL jersey store. Here we have NFL jerseys galore, with
a wide range of NFL jerseys including women’s NFL jerseys, men's NFL
jerseys, children's NFL jerseys, and much, much more.”
This approach may have worked 20 years ago, but not now. The keyword
should appear naturally on your page. Any attempts to go bonkers with
your keywords will look horrible and may set off spam filters in search
engines. Use your keyword naturally throughout the content. Repeating
your keyword once or twice is more than enough.
It's really that simple.
Next, you need to ensure you have a handful of variations of your keyword
on your page. Google believes a page is more naturally written if it has
variations of your keyword. And this helps your visibility because
sometimes different customers will type different words in Google to find
the same thing. And you want to appeal to these customers too.
And finally, you need to have some semantic keywords on the page. What
do I mean by semantic keywords? Well, if you're targeting a keyword like,
"dentist san francisco", then semantic keywords are words that should
naturally appear on a page that really does a great job of covering that
topic, words like "dentist", "root canal", "dental checkup", "dental
procedure", "teeth whitening", "SF, "CA", "California", and so on.
To successfully optimize a page, you need to have your main keywords,
keyword variations, and semantic keywords on the page. Make sure
they’re all naturally covered in your content. Naturally, this process is a bit
easier if you use tools. Ahrefs (ahrefs.com) and SurferSEO (surferseo.com)
are two great tools for finding main keywords, keyword variations, and
semantic keywords, that you should be adding to the page.
Areas you can weave keywords into the page include:
- Meta description and meta title tags.
- Navigation anchor text.

-- 45 of 174 --

- Navigation anchor title tags.
- Headings (h1, h2, h3, and h4 tags).
- Content text.
- Bolded and italicized text.
- Internal links in the content.
- Image filename, image alt tag, and image title tag.
- Video filename, video title.
How to get more people clicking on your rankings
in Google.
Meta tags have been widely misunderstood as mysterious pieces of code
SEO professionals mess around with, and “the secret” to attaining top
rankings. This couldn't be further from the truth.
The function of meta tags is quite simple. Meta tags are bits of code on
your site that control how your site appears in Google.
If you don't fill out your meta tags, Google will automatically use text from
your site to create your search listing. This is exactly what you don't want
Google to do, otherwise, it can end up looking like gibberish! Fill out these
tags correctly, and you can increase the number of people clicking on your
site in the search engine results.
Below is an example of the meta tag code.
<title>Paul’s NFL Jerseys</title>
<meta description="Buy NFL jerseys online. Wide range of colors and
sizes. Free delivery and free returns. We accept international orders!"/>
Below is an example of how a page with the above meta tag should appear
as a search engine result in Google:
Paul's NFL Jerseys
Buy Paul's NFL jerseys online. Wide range of colors and sizes. Free
delivery and free returns. We accept international orders!
https://www.yoursite.com/
Pretty simple, huh?

-- 46 of 174 --

The title tag has a character limit of roughly 55-60 characters in Google.
Use any more than 55-60 characters and Google will likely truncate your
title tag in the search engine results.
The meta description tag has a character limit of roughly 155-160
characters. Just like the title tag, Google will shorten your listing if it has
any more than 155-160 characters in the tag.
To change these tags on your site you have three options:
1. Use the software your site is built on. Most content management systems
have the option to change these tags. If it doesn't, you may need to install an
SEO plugin to change these tags.
2. Speak with your web designer or web developer to manually change your
meta tags for you.
3. If you are a tech-savvy person and familiar with HTML, you can change
the tags in the code yourself.
Load speed—Google magic dust.
If your site is as slow as a dead snail, then it’s likely your site is not living
up to its potential in the search engines and is disappointing website
visitors. Improving your site's load speed is an opportunity for an easy SEO
boost. Why? Because when visitors browse your website and it's blazing
fast, they stick to it like glue instead of clicking back to the search results.
And the positive user behavior associated with your website gets sent to
Google and you get rewarded with higher rankings.
Not only is load speed important for having great performance in search
engines, but extensive industry reports have also shown for each second
shaved off a site, there is an average increase of 7% to the site conversion
rate. In other words, the faster your site loads, the more people you will
have completing a sale. Simply put, load speed is not an aspect of your site
to overlook.

-- 47 of 174 --

Every site is built differently, with an endless variation of server
configurations, which means improving your load speed isn't as simple as
following a checklist. However, the following techniques will work on most
sites.
Common load speed improvements.
1. Host your site in the city where your customers reside and load speeds
will increase.
2. Alternatively, use a CDN (Content Delivery Network) to host your site
on servers all over the world. Visitors will get super-fast load speeds
regardless of location. Popular CDN services include CloudFlare and
Amazon CloudFront.
3. Enable load speed technologies like caching, compression, minification,
and HTTP/2. Most platforms have plugins for this, e.g. W3 Total Cache is a
popular plugin offering most of these features on WordPress.
4. Find large files on your site and shrink them. Use software like Adobe
Photoshop and you can compress image file sizes from 3MB down to
250KB without visual loss in quality, by using Photoshop's "save for web"
feature. An easy win for image-heavy sites.
The above are just a handful of the infinite possibilities for improving a
site’s load speed. Fortunately, several tools are making it easy to identify
speed improvements and speed bottlenecks, irrespective of the technology
your site is built on.
Load speed analysis tools.
1. Google Page Speed Insights
https://pagespeed.web.dev/
Google's great free tool, Page Speed Insights, will give you a page load
score out of 100. You can see how well your load speed compares to other
sites. You can also see how well your site loads on mobile and desktop.
Scores closer to 100 are near perfect.
After running a test on your site, the tool will give you a list of high-
priority, medium-priority, and low-priority areas for improvement. You can
forward these to your developer to speed up your site, or if you are a bit of a
tech-head, you can have a crack at fixing these up yourself.

-- 48 of 174 --

2. GTmetrix
https://gtmetrix.com/
Gtmetrix is the cream of the crop when it comes to load speed tools,
providing detailed breakdowns of files and resources slowing your site
down, listing file sizes of individual files, server load times, and much
more. It goes into greater depth than the other tools, though probably best
suited for a web developer or someone with a basic level of experience
building websites.
Large images are easy targets for load speed improvements. If you have any
images over 200kb, these can usually be compressed in Photoshop and
shrunk down to a fraction of the size without any quality loss. Take note of
any large files, send them to your web developer or web designer, and ask
them to compress the files to a smaller file size.
3. Lighthouse – Tools For Web Developers – Google
https://developer.chrome.com/docs/lighthouse/overview/
For advanced developers working on complicated projects or sites—i.e.
programmers who know what a Node module is—Google released a
powerful Chrome extension called Lighthouse. Lighthouse provides reports
on website performance, accessibility, adherence to programming best
practices, SEO, and more—with actionable steps on improving each of
these areas. While owners of basic websites probably won't get additional
insights from this tool, on top of recommendations provided by earlier
tools, programming ninjas looking for a well-rounded tool to enhance their
performance chops will find Google's Lighthouse is the Swiss Army knife
of site performance analysis.
The usual suspects—sitemaps.xml and robots.txt.
Sitemaps.xml
Search engines automatically look for a special file on each site called the
sitemaps.xml file. Having this file on your site is a must for making it easy
for search engines to discover pages on your site. Sitemaps are essentially a
giant map of all of the pages on your site. Fortunately, creating this file and
getting it on your site is straightforward.

-- 49 of 174 --

Most CMS systems have a sitemap file automatically generated. This
includes systems like WordPress, Magento, and Shopify. If this is not the
case on your site, you may need to install a plugin or use the free XML
Sitemaps Generator tool. The XML Sitemaps Generator will automatically
create a sitemaps.xml file for you.
XML Sitemaps Generator
https://www.xml-sitemaps.com/
Next, ask your web developer or web designer to upload it into the main
directory of your site or do it yourself if you have FTP access. Once
uploaded, the file should be publicly accessible with an address like the
below example:
https://www.yoursite.com/sitemaps.xml
Once you have done this, you should submit your sitemap to the Google
Search Console account for your site.
If you don’t have a Google Search Console account, the following article
by Google gives simple instructions for web developers or web designers to
set this up.
Add a website property – Search Console Help
https://support.google.com/webmasters/answer/34592
Login to your account and click on your site. Under “site configuration”
click “sitemaps” and submit your sitemap.
Robots.txt
Another must-have for every site is a robots.txt file. This should sit in the
same place as your sitemaps.xml file. The address to this file should look
the same as the example below:
http://www.yoursite.com/robots.txt
The robots.txt file is a simple file that exists so you can tell the areas of
your site you don’t want Google to list in the search engine results.

-- 50 of 174 --

While there is no boost from having a robots.txt file on your site, it’s
essential to check you don’t have a robots.txt file blocking areas of your site
you want search engines to find.
The robots.txt file is just a plain text document, its contents should look
something like the below example:
# robots.txt - a good example
User-agent: *
Disallow: /wp-admin
If you want your site to tell search engines to not crawl your site, it should
look like the next example. If you do not want your entire site blocked,
make sure it does not look like the example below. It is always a good idea
to double-check check it is not set up this way, just to be safe.
# robots.txt - example blocking the entire site
User-agent: *
Disallow: /
The forward slash in this example tells search engines their software should
not visit the home directory.
To create your robots.txt file, simply create a plain text document with
Notepad if you are on Windows, or TextEdit if you are on Mac OS. Make
sure the file is saved as a plain text document, and use the “robots.txt good
example” as an indication of how it should look. Take care to list any
directories you do not want search engines to visit, such as internal folders
for staff, admin areas, CMS back-end areas, and so on.
If there aren’t any areas you would like to block, you can skip editing your
robots.txt file altogether, but just double check you don’t have one blocking
important areas of the site like the above example.
Duplicate content—canonical tags and other fun.
In later chapters, I will describe how Google Panda penalizes sites with
duplicate content. Unfortunately, many site content management systems
will sometimes automatically create multiple versions of one page.

-- 51 of 174 --

For example, let’s say your site has a product page on socket wrenches, but
because of the system your site is built on, the same page can be accessed
from multiple URLs from different areas of your site:
http://www.yoursite.com/products.aspx?=23213
http://www.yoursite.com/socket-wrenches
http://www.yoursite.com/tool-kits/socket-wrenches
In the search engine’s eyes, this is confusing as hell and multiple versions
of the page are considered duplicate content.
To account for this, you should always ensure a special tag is placed on
every page of your site, called the canonical tag.
The canonical tag indicates the original version of a web page to search
engines. By telling Google the page you consider the “true” version of the
page with the tag, you can control which page is listed in the search results.
Choose the most straightforward URL for users, the URL that reads like
plain English.
Using the earlier socket wrenches example, by using the tag below, Google
would be more likely to display the best version of the page in the search
engine results.
<link rel="canonical
" href="http://www.yoursite.com/socket-wrenches
"/>
As a general rule, include this tag on every page on your site, shortly before
the </head> tag in the code.
Usability—the new SEO explained.
Mobiles and tablets have overtaken desktops in the vicious battle for
Internet market share, with mobile devices now making up more than 60%
of all traffic. To ensure a great search experience for users, Google gives
advantages to sites with great support for users on all devices. As a result,
many SEO pundits found you can get an advantage simply by improving
your mobile support.

-- 52 of 174 --

For example, let’s say a mobile user is searching for late-night pizza
delivery in Los Angeles. One local business has a site with a large number
of backlinks but no special support for mobile users, it’s difficult for the
user to navigate, the layout doesn’t automatically fit the screen, and the
menu text is small and hard to use on a touch screen.
Another competing local business has low amounts of backlinks, but great
support for mobile users. Its design fits perfectly to the screen and has
special navigation designed for mobile users, making it easy to use.
In most cases, the second site will now rank higher than the first, for mobile
users. This is just one example of how usability can impact your rankings.
While a term like "usability" can seem vague, let’s look at practical steps to
improve your usability and the SEO strength of your site.
1. Make your site accessible for all devices.
Make your site accessible and easy for all users: desktop, mobile, and
tablet. The simple way is to make your site responsive, which means it
automatically resizes across all devices and has mobile-friendly navigation
for mobile users. Mobile support is covered in more detail later in this
chapter, but you can enter your site into the following tool quickly to see if
Google registers your site as mobile-friendly.
Mobile friendly Test - Google
https://search.google.com/test/mobile-friendly
2. Increase your content quality.
Gone are the days of hiring a bunch of low-quality writers to bulk out the
content on your site. It needs to be proofread and edited, and the more
“sticky” you make your content, the better results you will get. If you
provide compelling content, users will spend more time on your site and are
less likely to bounce back to the search results. Users will also be more
likely to share your content. Google will see this and give your rankings a
boost.
3. Use clean code on your website.

-- 53 of 174 --

There’s a surprisingly high amount of sites with dodgy code, difficult for
both search engines and Internet browsers to read. If there are HTML code
errors in your site, which means, it hasn’t been coded according to industry
best practices, your design may break when your site is viewed on different
browsers, or worse, confuse search engines when they come along and look
at your site. Run your site through the below tool and ask your web
developer to fix any errors.
Web standards validator
https://validator.w3.org/
4. Take it easy on the popups and advertisements.
Sites with spammy and aggressive ads are often ranked poorly in search
results. The SEO gurus have reached no consensus on the number of ads
leading to a penalty from Google, so use your common sense. Ensure
advertisements don’t overshadow your content or occupy the majority of
screen real estate.
5. Improve the overall “operability” of your site.
Does your site have slow web hosting or a bunch of broken links and
images? Simple technical oversights like these contribute to a poor user
experience.
Make sure your site is with a reliable web hosting company and doesn’t go
down in peak traffic. Even better, make sure your site is hosted on a server
in your local city, and this will make it faster for local users.
Next up, chase up any 404 errors with your web developer. 404 errors are
errors indicating users are clicking on links in your site and being sent to an
empty page. It contributes to a poor user experience in Google’s eyes.
Fortunately, these errors are easily fixed.
You can find 404 errors on your site by logging into your Google Search
Console account, clicking on your site, then clicking on “Crawl” and
“Crawl Errors.” Here you will find a list of 404 errors. If you click on the
error and then click “Linked From” you can find the pages with the broken
links. Fix these yourself, or discuss them with your web developer.

-- 54 of 174 --

Google Search Console
https://search.google.com/search-console/about
If you want external tools to speed up improving your site’s usability, I’ve
found the following two resources helpful:
BrowserStack - Free to try, plans start at $29 per month.
https://www.browserstack.com
BrowserStack allows you to test your site on over +20,000 different
browsers and devices at once. You can preview how your site works on
tablets, mobile devices, and all the different browsers such as Chrome,
Firefox, Safari, Internet Explorer, and so on. It helps make sure it displays
correctly across many different devices.
Trymata - Free to try, test results start from $333 monthly
https://trymata.com/
Trymata provides videos, audio narration, surveys of users going through
your site, and reports on any difficulties they uncover. Usability tests are
good for larger projects requiring objective feedback from normal users.
Mobile support—important SEO explained in
simple language.
Whether we like it or not, mobile users are here to stay and Google is
driving the mobile revolution. With the largest mobile app store in the
world, the largest mobile operating system in the world, and the largest
amount of mobile search users, it’s safe to say mobile users are a high
priority for Google.
If you are not supporting mobile users, it’s important to implement mobile
support, not just for better search engine results, but for better sales and
conversions. Simply put, the majority of your traffic is coming from mobile
users. So let’s take a look at how to support mobile users.
How to best support mobile users.
If you want to increase support for mobile devices and be more search
engine friendly, you have three options:

-- 55 of 174 --

1. Create a responsive site.
Responsive sites are the cream of the crop when it comes to sites that
support both desktop and mobile devices. With responsive sites, both
mobile and desktop users see the same pages and same content, and
everything is automatically sized to fit the screen. It’s also becoming more
common for WordPress templates and new sites to feature a responsive
layout.
2. Dynamically serve different content to mobile and desktop users.
You can ask your web developer to detect which devices are accessing your
site and automatically deliver a different version of your site catered to the
device. This is a complicated setup, better suited for large sites with
thousands of pages, with complicated infrastructure, when a responsive
approach is not possible.
3. Host your mobile content on a separate subdomain, e.g.
m.yoursite.com
While Google stated this implementation is supported, I recommend against
it. You need a lot of redirects in place and must jump through giant hoops to
ensure search engines recognize your special mobile subdomain as a copy
of your main site. Responsive sites are popular for good reason: it’s easier
and cheaper to maintain one site, than both maintaining a desktop copy of
your site and a separate mobile copy of your site on a mobile subdomain.
Improving performance in the mobile search results.
Google stated mobile support is straightforward, either your site supports
mobile devices or it doesn’t... Well, it’s not straightforward. You can get an
edge over competitors by using a handful of tools to improve your mobile
usability and make your site faster for mobile users.

-- 56 of 174 --

Run your site through Google's Mobile-Friendly Test Tool to confirm if you
support mobile users, and review the Mobile Usability report in Google
Search Console and check for any errors worth fixing. For advanced
insights, you can use Chrome’s Lighthouse reports, which will give you
detailed reports on the best practices and performance of your website. And
if you're lazy like me, delegate. Send the reports and errors over to your
web developer and get them fixed.
Who doesn't like a competitive advantage? Work through these tools, make
your mobile support better than competitors, and you will crush it in the
search results.
Google PageSpeed Insights
https://pagespeed.web.dev/
Mobile Usability – Google Search Console
https://www.google.com/webmasters/tools/mobile-usability
Lighthouse – Google Chrome
https://developer.chrome.com/docs/lighthouse/overview
The technical details of building a responsive site are beyond the scope of
this book and could fill an entire book. In fact, it does, I counted close to 17
responsive web design books on Amazon as I wrote this paragraph… That
said, mobile SEO can be ridiculously simple.
If you have a responsive site that delivers the same content to mobile and
desktop users, automatically resizes content to the screen, and is fast and
user-friendly, all you have to do is follow the SEO recommendations in this
book, and your mobile results will be top-notch from an SEO perspective.
Alternatively, follow one of the recommended implementations discussed
earlier in this section.
For guidelines, direct from the horse’s mouth so to speak, you can read
Google’s mobile support documentation for webmasters and web
developers.
Mobile Friendly Sites – Google Developers
https://developers.google.com/search/mobile-sites/get-started

-- 57 of 174 --

Google's Search Quality Guidelines — and how to
use them to your advantage.
Search quality is a popular topic in the SEO industry because it has a
massive impact on the search results. Why is this so? Making sure users are
sent to high-quality and trustworthy search results is critical for Google to
safeguard its position as providing the best all-around search experience.
While this sounds a little vague, you can use Google's search quality
guidelines to your advantage and get an edge over competitors. Did you
know that Google’s search quality team published their “Search Quality
Evaluator Guidelines ” publicly? If you didn't, now you do.
The document's 168 pages long, so presuming you don't consider a
whitepaper leisurely reading, I'll list the most important and actionable
takeaways, so you can use them to your advantage.
Google Search Quality Evaluator Guidelines - Most Important Factors
Google's whitepaper lists the holy grail of important factors when it comes
to search quality. And here it is …
EEAT... That's right, E.E.A.T. Experience, Expertise, Authority, and Trust.
Acronym choice aside, to establish quality, Google is looking at the
experience, expertise, authority, and trustworthiness on the page and across
the website. This includes things like the content quality, the reputation of
the website and its authors, publicly-listed information about site
ownership, contact details, first-hand experience, and several other factors.
Now we know what's important from a top-level perspective, let's zoom
into actionable and practical takeaways that will affect the average Joe
trying to nudge his way up the search results.
Search Quality Evaluator Guidelines—Key Takeaways
1. Does the writer have first-hand experience? If the author of the page has
first-hand experience with the product, place, or topic they are discussing,
they are likely to provide real value and insights for the reader, as opposed
to an article written by someone with no experience at all.

-- 58 of 174 --

2. Real name, company name, and contact information listed on an about
page. If you don't have this information listed on your website, why should
Google, or anyone else for that matter, trust you? Better make sure you
include it.
3. Excessive and unnatural internal structural links across sidebars and
footers. If you've got 150 links in your footer, it's obvious to Google you're
trying to do something sneaky, so be conservative with the footer and
sidebar links. Keep it restricted to the most important pages on your site or
what's useful for your users.
4. Over monetization of content. Specifically, if you are disguising
advertisements as the main content or your advertisements occupy more
real estate than the main content, then one of Google's search evaluators
will probably flag your site as spam. Take a common-sense approach with
your ads, don't overdo it!
5. List editors & contributors. Are you publishing a bunch of articles under
pseudonyms or generic usernames? Listing editors and contributors, i.e. real
people, is more trustworthy and will increase the perceived quality of your
page.
6. Provide sources. Publishing generic articles en masse without any
reputable sources? You'll get a better-quality assessment, and a higher
ranking if you list sources for your articles. Listing sources shows the writer
has performed diligence in their research and increases the credibility of the
page.
7. Financial transaction pages. All you drop-shippers and ecommerce
retailers out there stand up and take note—pages associated with financial
transactions (shopping cart, checkout, product pages, etc.) must link to
policy pages for refunds, returns, delivery information, and the terms and
conditions of your site. Think about it from the user's perspective, if you are
an average Joe shopper thinking about buying something and the page
doesn't list any of this information, how safe would you feel checking out?

-- 59 of 174 --

8. Pages offering financial information must be of the highest quality.
Google is stricter with these types of pages, as they fall into the “Your
Money or Your Life” category—meaning it could affect the financial well-
being of the user. If you're publishing this kind of content, make sure you're
doing everything you can to provide high-quality, detailed articles, citing
sources, fully disclosing financial relationships, and making it clear what
author or company is behind the content.
That sums up the most important takeaways from the Google Search
Evaluator Guidelines. If you haven't got them on your site, work ‘ em in
and you'll get a leg up over your competitors, or worse, your rankings could
suffer. And if you really, really want to sit down and read through the 168-
page whitepaper on page-quality assessment, here it is for your enjoyment.
Search Quality Evaluator Guidelines – Google
https://static.googleusercontent.com/media/guidelines.raterhub.com/en//sea
rchqualityevaluatorguidelines.pdf
Readability — SEO for the future.
One of the strongest ranking factors has been flying under the radar,
overlooked by many SEO professionals in their optimization checklists,
leaving a golden opportunity for those who know about it. I ’ m talking
about readability.
Google has been outspoken about readability as an important consideration
for webmasters. Google ’ s former head of web spam, Matt Cutts, publicly
stated that poorly researched and misspelled content will rank poorly, and
clarity should be your focus. And by readability, this means not just
avoiding spelling mistakes, but making your content readable for the widest
possible audience, with simple language and sentence structures.
Flesch readability surfaced in the Searchmetrics Google ranking factors
report, showing a high correlation between high-ranking sites and easy-to-
read content. The Searchmetrics rankings report discovered sites appearing
in the top 10 showed an average Flesch reading score of 76.00—content
that is fairly easy to read for 13-15-year-old students and up.

-- 60 of 174 --

It makes sense readability is important for Google. By encouraging search
results to have content readable to a wide audience, Google maximizes
advertising revenues. If Google were to encourage complicated results that
mostly appeal to a smaller demographic, such as post-graduates, it would
lower Google's general appeal and its market share.
You can achieve an on-page SEO boost, while increasing your user
engagement, by making your content readable to a wide audience. Run your
content through a Flesch readability test. It will look at your word and
sentence usage, and give you a score on how readable it is. Scores between
90-100 are easily understood by an 11-year-old student, 60-70 are easily
understood by 13 to 15-year-old students, and 0-30 are best understood by
University graduates.
You can use the free tool below and should aim for a readability score
between 60-100. To improve your score, edit your content to use fewer
words per sentence, and use words with a smaller number of syllables.
Readability Score
https://readable.com/
How to accelerate traffic and rankings with
content marketing.
One of the most powerful on-page SEO strategies is adding more unique,
fresh content to your site. If you consistently add new pages to your site,
you are going to receive more traffic. In fact, not only can you increase
your traffic, but you can receive an exponential traffic increase as you
publish more content.
It’s a no-brainer when you think about it. This is why blogs, publishing, and
news-type sites consistently get good results in search engines. More
content means more rankings, more visitors, and more sales. Let’s look at
getting started with improving your traffic by adding fresh content.
1. Post new content on a regular schedule.

-- 61 of 174 --

If you are going to add new content to your site, you need to decide on a
schedule and stick to it. This might seem obvious, but you would be
surprised at the large number of businesses that talk about starting a blog
and never get around to it. It’s the businesses with a regular roster of adding
content to their site that see regular increases in search rankings, increases
in overall search engine performance, and a growing loyal audience.
Without a dedicated roster or schedule, it will never get done.
If you can’t create content yourself or don't have a budget to hire a full-time
marketing assistant, try hiring a ghostwriter.
Good quality writers can be sourced between $25-$75 US per article and
you can regularly churn out fresh content to your heart’s content.
Textbroker and the Problogger job board are two popular services that can
put you in touch with talented writers.
Textbroker
https://www.textbroker.com
ProBlogger Job Board
https://problogger.com/jobs/
2. Leverage your social media accounts.
It almost goes without saying, but you should be leveraging social media to
drive traffic to new posts or pages added to your site.
Whenever you post new content, post it across all of your social media
accounts. Then post it again in a couple of days and you will expose your
content to a different segment of fans. You’ll increase your social activity
and as a result, get higher rankings.
3. Reach out to bloggers writing roundup posts on your blog’s topic.

-- 62 of 174 --

Bloggers often write roundup posts listing their hottest must-read blogs or
articles on a particular topic. Reach out to authors, with a personalized
message and links to your best blog posts. Take it to the next level by
making it easier for the author to update their post—with a short blog
description, image, and link to your social channels. Ensure you have a base
level of high-value content to start, then start reaching out to bloggers. You
can start seeing links to your blog in a week or two, with enough outreach
efforts.
Here’s a handful of search queries to find relevant roundup posts and
digests of blogs in your industry, replace “keyword” with your blog’s topic:
“keyword” blogs you should follow
“keyword” blogs you should read
“keyword” blogs in 2025
“keyword” trends in 2025
“keyword” give their tips in 2025
best “keyword” blogs
HTTPS & SSL certificates.
Google has publicly admitted site encryption is a positive ranking factor in
its algorithm. This means if you haven't already, it’s a good idea to install
an SSL security certificate on your site.
If that isn’t motivation enough, Google Chrome shows security warnings to
users visiting sites without SSL-enabled. The security notice shows up
before the user tries to visit the website stating that the website is “Not
Secure”.
If you’re wondering what the hell I am talking about, you have seen
website encryption in action when you log in to your Internet banking or
Gmail account. When you see a padlock at the start of the web address, this
means the connection is encrypted and the site owner has installed a
security certificate and verified ownership of the site.

-- 63 of 174 --

Website encryption provides a direct connection between the user and the
website server, a bit like a tunnel. Because it’s encrypted if anybody tries to
eavesdrop on this connection any information intercepted will look like
gibberish. The only parties who can read the information are the web server
and the user. Pretty neat, huh?
Unfortunately, installing a security certificate isn’t enough to get an extra
boost to your rankings. There is a migration process required to ensure
Google picks up everything correctly if your website doesn't have one
installed.
I’ve listed basic steps below for upgrading your website without any loss in
rankings or SEO juice. But this process is more technically involved than
weaving a few keywords into the page, you should read the supporting
documentation by Google, ask your developer to do this, and possibly
consider using professional SEO help before completing this process.
What if you already have SSL installed? Then you don't have anything to
worry about. You're good from a security standpoint. And you only have to
proceed through this checklist if you're upgrading a website that doesn't
have an SSL certificate installed or enabled.
1. Contact your web host or domain registration provider to install a
security certificate. Common fees can range from $50 to $500 per year,
depending on the type of certificate.
2. Make sure both HTTPS and HTTP versions of your site continue to run.
3. Upgrade all internal resources and internal links in your HTML code to
use relative URLs. This includes references to HTML files, CSS files,
Javascript files, images, and all other files referenced in your HTML code.
This means instead of referring to internal resources in the website code
with an absolute address (e.g. http://www.yourwebsite.com/logo.jpg), it
should use a relative address (e.g. ./logo.jpg).
4. Update all of your canonical tags to point to the new HTTPS version of
your site.
5. Upload 301 redirects for all HTTP URLs to point to the new HTTPS-
secured URLs.
6. Verify the new HTTPS version of your site in a new profile in Google
Search Console.

-- 64 of 174 --

7. Upload an XML sitemap to the new HTTPS Google Search Console
profile. This sitemap should include all of the old HTTP pages from your
site and the new HTTPS pages. We are submitting the old pages to
encourage Google to crawl the old pages and register the redirects.
8. Update all links on your social media accounts and other marketing
materials to point to the new URLs.
If you want a downloadable copy of this checklist, the SSL upgrade steps
for SEO are covered in the free SEO checklist at the end of the book.
Before working through the SSL upgrade steps, make sure you or your
developer read through the support guides by Google on performing this
upgrade.
Enabling HTTPS on your servers - Google Developers
https://web.dev/enable-https/
How to move a site – Google Search Central
https://developers.google.com/search/docs/crawling-indexing/site-move-
with-url-changes
User Behavior Optimization—how to use Google’s
machine learning technology to your advantage.
Ever heard of Project Pigeon, the top-secret World War 2 U.S. military
project for developing missiles guided by pigeons tapping on transparent
screens?
Project Pigeon was developed by famous Harvard behavioral psychologist
B. F. Skinner in the 1940s, and later decommissioned, because in Skinner's
words, "no one would take us seriously." Later, Skinner's more notable
work on behavioral analysis was taken seriously, establishing behavioral
psychology as a legitimate field of psychology.

-- 65 of 174 --

How we behave online—tapping on screens—has become a point of focus
for Google, with user behavior signals, such as bounce rate, time-on-site,
and click-through rate positioned strongly in Google's top 10 ranking
factors. Google's machine learning algorithm RankBrain observes these
behavior signals, recalculating search results in real-time. Fortunately, you
can use this to your advantage and get higher rankings with user behavior
optimization.
Improving user behavior on your site is no longer a 'nice-to-have'… It's a
serious requirement for any SEO practitioner and a powerful technique for
anyone who wants to rank in the top 10 results.
Read on for actionable techniques for leveraging Google's machine-
learning algorithm to shoot your pages to the top of the rankings faster than
a pigeon-guided missile.
Boosting Click-Through Rates.
Your click-through rate (CTR) is the percentage of people who see your
search listing and click on it. If more people click on your search result than
others, this tells Google your page is appealing to users. Get higher click-
through rates with these 7 techniques.
1. Fill out the meta title and meta description tags on your target pages.
Unfilled meta tags lead to automatically generated snippets by Google,
which generally receive low CTRs. For every page on your site with
unfilled meta tags, an SEO technician silently weeps.
2. Make meta tags compelling. Think actionable, descriptive, and specific.
Sell your page and make it clear why the user should click on your result
instead of competing pages.
3. Use numbers and special characters to stand out. Specific numbers
naturally attract higher click-through rates. Special characters such as pipes,
em-dashes, and brackets make your rankings more eye-catching and gain
more clicks.
4. Use keywords in URLs. URLs with keywords indicate your page is
relevant at a glance, getting automatic clicks.

-- 66 of 174 --

5. Use short URLs. Both users and Google like short URLs, and so do I.
Case closed.
6. Target featured snippets and rich snippets. Rich results can gain up to
30% more clicks. The rich snippets chapter later in this book details these
types of rankings.
7. Improve low-performing pages. Look through your Google Search
Console keyword report for keywords with low CTRs. Improve the meta
tags and URLs on those pages and make them more click-worthy.
Here’s an example of a title tag and URL that has been expertly written to
attract clicks:
How to Save Money: 20 Simple Tips | DaveRamsey.com
https://www.daveramsey.com/blog/the-secret-to-saving-money
Boosting Time On Site.
Time-on-site, bounce rates, pages-per-visit... These metrics measure similar
things—are users sticking to your content like glue, or are they immediately
clicking the back button to find a better result?
How users engage with your content is considered super important by
Google's machine learning algo RankBrain, if you can improve your time
on site, you can improve your rankings. Let’s look at 4 simple techniques
for getting users hooked to your content.
1. Increase internal links in your content. Creating relevant internal links
within your content encourages users to open up more tabs and browse
more pages on your site, 2 to 3 internal links per blog post is enough
without becoming annoying.
2. Make your content readable. Use large font sizes, preferably 16px-18px
so people don't need to fetch the magnifying glass to read your content. Use
short and simple words. Break your content down into subheadings,
numbered lists, short paragraphs, and sentences.
3. Use longer word counts. It stands to reason it takes longer for users to
read long articles. And according to a study by Ahrefs, content with long
word counts attracts more links automatically. Nice.

-- 67 of 174 --

4. Use videos. Video is 65% of all Internet traffic according to several
studies. Simply put, Internet users love video. Every user who watches
videos on your pages boosts your time-on-site metric in heavenly ways.
5. Use interactive media. Interactive media such as slideshows and online
tools are time-tested techniques to boost time on-site and user engagement.
Google's Core Web Vitals.
Ever waited for a slow page to load on your mobile, moved your finger to
tap where you want to go—and BAM—an annoying ad appeared under
your finger and you've accidentally tapped to a page you never wanted to
visit?... Annoying, right? Well, thank goodness Google decided to send the
Page Experience Police to put an end to this ghastly behavior.
Google HQ laid out the master plans for the "Page Experience Update", a
major update to the algorithm, on the Google Search Central Blog, which
confirmed three new signals into Google’s algorithm known as the "Core
Web Vitals", which measure a user’s experience when they visit your page.
Google announcing a change to the algorithm is rare. It’s time to sit up and
pay attention when this happens. It is something that will affect all websites
and is an opportunity to get an easy rankings boost.
These ranking factors focus on mobile and desktop. So when working
through your site, make sure these areas are improved for both mobile and
desktop users, and you'll be two steps ahead of competitors. Read on for
details on taking advantage of the web vitals to boost your rankings.
What are the Core Web Vitals?
The Core Web Vitals are three metrics that measure how positive (or how
annoying) a user's experience is. Here they are:
- Loading. How long it takes for most of your content to load?
- Interactivity. How quickly does the page respond to user interactions?
- Visual Stability. How visually stable your page is while loading—does
everything stay in the same place or does it look like a popcorn machine
about to explode?

-- 68 of 174 --

How to Improve the Core Web Vitals.
If you're a technical newbie, there's some tech jargon ahead. Forward the
links to your tech team or developer, ask them to improve the following
areas, then skip on to the next section. This is a technical update and there's
no way around it. Just ask for screenshots of the performance, before and
after any changes, so you can measure results.
If you're a JavaScript ninja or a tech junkie like myself, read on for easy
wins for improving the vitals, and official documentation from the smart
lads at Google.
1. Improving Loading.
The first Core Web Vital, Largest Contentful Paint, is all about making your
main content show up faster. Having your Largest Contentful Paint occur
within 2.5 seconds is a good range according to Google’s guidelines. Fixing
the following easy wins should be more than enough to make your content
load blazingly fast, but if you want to do a deep dive, read the developer's
guide below.
- Slow server response times.
- Optimize your server.
- Route users to a nearby CDN.
- Cache assets.
- Serve HTML pages cache-first.
- Establish third-party connections early.
Optimizing Largest Contentful Paint - Web.Dev
https://web.dev/optimize-lcp/
2. Improving Interactivity.

-- 69 of 174 --

The second Core Web Vital, Interaction to Next Paint (INP), is all about
how fast your page responds to user input. Overall, the biggest cause for
slow responsiveness is heavy JavaScript clogging up the page. Ensuring
your pages respond to user interactions within 200 milliseconds is a good
range, according to Google’s technical guide. The following easy wins will
speed up page responsiveness; for more details, check out the developer's
guide below.
- Break up Long Tasks.
- Optimize your page for interaction readiness.
- Use a web worker.
- Reduce JavaScript execution time.
Optimize Interaction to Next Paint - Web.Dev
https://web.dev/articles/optimize-inp
3. Improving Visual Stability.
The third Core Web Vital, Cumulative Layout Shift, is all about how much
your page bounces around while loading, less is better (well, duh!). Making
sure less than 10% of your layout shifts while loading is a good goal,
according to Google’s guidelines. Fix the following low-hanging fruit and
your page will be visually stable while it loads. If you still experience
issues, read the following technical documentation.
- Images without dimensions.
- Ads, embeds, and iframes without dimensions.
- Dynamically injected content.
- Web Fonts causing flashes of invisible or unstyled text.
- Actions waiting for a network response before updating DOM.
Optimize Cumulative Layout Shift - Web.Dev
https://web.dev/optimize-cls/
Core Web Vitals Tools.
The following tools will help you measure the Core Web Vitals on your
website, find opportunities to improve them, and track results.
Chrome Web Vitals – Google Chrome Extension

-- 70 of 174 --

https://github.com/GoogleChrome/web-vitals-extension
Core Web Vitals Report – Google Search Console
https://support.google.com/webmasters/answer/9205520
Lighthouse – Google Chrome
https://github.com/GoogleChrome/lighthouse
Core Web Vitals Resources.
Again, if you’re not very technical, don’t be overwhelmed, forward the
above links to your web developer, the three areas of improvement are
easily fixed on most sites. If you’re a developer or technical person like
myself, the above easy-wins are more than enough to ensure the Core Web
Vitals perform well on most websites. For the detail-a-holics out there
wanting all the official details from Google HQ, check out the links below.
Evaluating Page Experience For a Better Web – Google Search Central
https://developers.google.com/search/blog/2020/05/evaluating-page-
experience
Learn Web Vitals
https://web.dev/learn-core-web-vitals/
Voice search optimization, how to target voice
search results.
We're literally living in the future. We’re living in the age where you can
ask your car where the nearest coffee shop is and instantly get a perfect
answer. Voice search has been quietly, or not so quietly, changing the search
industry for a number of years. And in this section, we're going to take a
look at strategies and techniques to improve your visibility for voice
searches.
Understanding voice search.

-- 71 of 174 --

Voice search is not just a fad. It began as a handy way to search without
typing and evolved into a fully fledged AI powered assistants that are
always in the background. Having some awareness of voice searches is
pivotal for SEO because voice search results are often drawn from the very
top of the search results. Voice searches are typically more conversational
and can be significantly longer than text queries. Targeting voice searches
takes a slightly different approach than traditional search results.
1. Setting up for voice search.
The foundation of voice search optimization is making sure your page
loads fast and has great mobile support. Your mobile support needs to get a
pass, and your Core Web Vitals and load speed metrics need to be
performing well, optimally, faster than competitors if you want to rank at
the top. Make sure you get these basic elements in place, because they are
prerequisites for achieving a voice search result.
And a great starting point for getting a handle on your Core Web Vitals and
load speed performance is Google’s PageSpeed Insights. Pagespeed
Insights is Google's free tool for getting a handle on how you are
performing in these areas.
2. Creating content for voice search.
When it comes to voice search, your content should be conversationally
written. Clear and concise answers perform well in voice search results.
Creating 'snippet bait' – content designed to be picked up and featured as a
direct answer – can give you an edge. Use FAQ's and How to type outlines
for your content results in natural language question and answer type
content, naturally.
For instance, a page answering “How do I change a tire?” with clear and
practical step-by-step instructions, summarized in brief short paragraphs,
around 30 words in length each, naturally results in an article designed to
be picked up for voice search answers.

-- 72 of 174 --

Here's an example outline:
Main Heading (H1): "Quick Garden Salad Recipe"
Subheading (H2): "What Ingredients Do I Need for a Simple Garden
Salad?"
Bulleted list of essential ingredients - 30 words
Subheading (H2): "How to Make a Garden Salad Dressing?"
Easy-to-follow dressing recipe - 30 words
Subheading (H2): "How to Toss a Garden Salad"
Step-by-step instructions for assembling the salad - 30 words
Subheading (H2): "What to Add to Your Garden Salad for Extra Crunch?"
List of crunchy toppings with short descriptions - 30 words
Subheading (H2): "Can I Make a Garden Salad Ahead of Time?"
Tips for preparing a salad in advance without losing freshness - 30 words
By crafting content that's short and sweet, and by making your content and
subheadings conversational, you're much more likely to be picked up for a
voice search result.
3. Use speakable structured data.
Adding schema markup can significantly improve your chances of
appearing for voice searches. The Speakable schema, in particular, is
designed for voice search, labeling sections of your content that are great
for audio playback. Add this in addition to any regular schema markup you
have on the page. Here's an example of Speakable schema markup.
<script type="application/ld+json">
{
...
"speakable": {
"@type": "SpeakableSpecification",
"xpath": [
"/html/body/main/article/h2[1]",

-- 73 of 174 --

"/html/body/main/article/p[1]",
"/html/body/main/article/h2[2]",
"/html/body/main/article/p[2]",
"/html/body/main/article/h2[3]",
"/html/body/main/article/p[3]",
"/html/body/main/article/h2[4]",
"/html/body/main/article/p[4]",
"/html/body/main/article/h2[5]",
"/html/body/main/article/p[5]"
]
}
...
</script>
Voice search optimization is no longer optional. Start by improving your
site’s mobile responsiveness and load speeds. Create voice search-ready
content. Finally, add structured data to your page. With these steps, you'll
be well on your way to showing up high on the voice search results.
~
That sums it up for the on-page SEO chapter.
If you have a small business, the optimization factors mentioned earlier in
this chapter are what will make a difference—such as ensuring your site has
the right keywords and is accessible to all users.
What’s most important is you act. On-page SEO is often the easiest part of
SEO. The power is in your hands to fix these areas on your site. Remember
small changes can lead to big results. Put these methods into practice and
start improving your rankings.
Just like the keyword research steps, for readers who want to put the theory
into practice, all on-page optimization tips from this chapter are included in
the SEO checklist. I recommend finishing the book before downloading the
checklist and the on-page SEO steps, so you are familiar with the theory
behind the practical steps.

-- 74 of 174 --

Chapter 4: Link building. How to
rank extremely high on Google.
Why is link-building so important?
The previous chapter described how to make your site more visible to
search engines with on-page SEO. But if you want to show up at the top of
the search results your site needs links.
You may have wondered what makes links so important, especially when
there are so many factors Google uses to rank sites. The truth is, that links
are such a strong factor, that it is unlikely you will rank high for a keyword
if you are competing against sites with more backlinks.
When you think about it, links are the currency of the web. Each time a
page links to another, it is a vote for the value of the page being linked to. If
a page provides massive value to Internet users, it stands to reason it will
get links from other websites. This is why links are such a strong factor in
Google's algorithm.
Link building is the key to ranking your site high in search engine results.
The dirty little secret no one wants to tell you
about link building.
There are a lot of opinions circulating the Internet about the best kind of
links to build to your site. So much so, that they often escalate into heated
discussions.
What is the best link? A link from a government site or a high-trafficked
blog? Is it better to get a link from a highly relevant site or a site with a lot
of social media activity?

-- 75 of 174 --

The dirty secret no one wants to tell you about link building is there is no
single best kind of link.
If this weren’t the case, Google wouldn't work. Everyone would go out and
find a way to spam their way to the top of the rankings very quickly.
Having thousands of one type of link pointing to a page is suspicious and a
clear sign the site owner is gaming the system.
That said, as a rule, you should try to build links on authoritative, relevant,
and high-quality sites. High-quality, relevant links are much stronger than
links from low-quality, unrelated sites.
How to acquire links and what to avoid in link
building.
Many stories are floating around about business owners being slammed by
Google for no good reason. Don't let the horror stories mislead you.
In most cases, what happened is the webmaster was doing something
suspicious or outdated, like building thousands of links to their site from
link directories, and then their rankings suddenly dropped off from Google's
top 10 search results.
If you don't exhibit overly spammy behavior in your link building, as a
general rule you will be OK.
These best practices will ensure you acquire links correctly and don't break
Google's terms of service:
1. Acquire links naturally and evenly over time. Your links should be
attained consistently and organically.
Google has made its approach to assessing link acquisition with time public
knowledge. Patent US8407231B2 outlines how Google analyzes the age of
links and the rate they are acquired and then uses this information to
calculate the search results.

-- 76 of 174 --

If you don’t fancy reading up on patents in your spare time, then just
remember to gradually build up your links over time, so Google sees that
your website is acquiring links organically. Don't go out and buy one
thousand links pointing to your site overnight or you’re sure to set off a red
flag in Google’s system and get into its bad books.
2. Don't purchase links unless you know what you are doing. Buying links
to boost your rankings is against Google's spam policies and you risk being
penalized. These kinds of links may work but are generally not worth the
potential damage unless you are confident you know what you are doing.
3. Forget about link-swapping or link-trading. These schemes are
completely obvious to Google, and either no longer work or may harm your
site. This goes against common knowledge, but I've achieved countless
number-one rankings for ridiculously competitive keywords without ever
swapping links. Link-swapping is extremely time-consuming and
completely unnecessary. Get by without it.
4. Don't spam message boards, article sites, or blog comments with crappy
content. This might work temporarily, but strategies such as these are
outdated very quickly.
5. There are paid networks out there offering to build new links to your site
for a low monthly fee each month. Never use them. These networks are
against Google’s spam policies and using them is a quick way to ensure you
find yourself in hot water with Google.
Anchor text. What's all the fuss?
There has been some controversy around anchor text, as touched on in a
previous chapter. Anchor text is the text contained in a link. Anchor text
was one of the strongest factors for achieving top rankings.
If you had one thousand links to your site with “NFL football jerseys” as
the link text, and competitors only had a handful of links with the same
anchor text, it was likely you would rank number one. That is until
Google’s Penguin update effectively put an end to SEOs using “exact
match” anchor text as their strategy. Now it is just simply too risky.

-- 77 of 174 --

Not only is it no longer as effective as it once was, but building hundreds of
“exact match” links to a site actually can prevent it from ranking for that
keyword.
So then, you might wonder, what is the best way to build up anchor text?
It should be natural.
It is OK to have your targeted keyword in your anchor text, but it should
not be the only keyword or the main keyword in all of your links, and there
should be a mix of related keywords.
If you think about it, this is a pattern all legitimate sites naturally attract. It
defies logic that a quality site would automatically be linked with the same
text throughout the entire World Wide Web.
Look over the below examples to see a bad anchor text profile compared to
a natural anchor text profile:
Bad anchor text – text in external links
http://www.examplefootballbrand.com/football-jerseys.html
NFL football jerseys - 200 links
Good anchor text - text in external links
http://www.examplefootballbrand.com/football-jerseys.html
examplefootballbrand - 50 links
NFL football jersey store - 10 links
NFL football jerseys - 5 links
http://www.examplefootballbrand.com - 25 links
football jersey store - 5 links
football jerseys online - 5 links
football jacket store - 15 links
click here - 7 links
website - 15 links
The above good anchor text example illustrates the natural way sites
accumulate links over time. Your target keyword should not be the most
linked phrase to the page.

-- 78 of 174 --

You can learn a lot by looking at the search engine results ranking in
Google, entering high-ranking sites into Link Explorer, and looking at their
anchor text. You'll notice almost every top-ranking page has natural anchor
text, like the good example above.
Track your link-building efforts and keep them in a spreadsheet. This way
you can monitor your anchor text and make sure it fits in with best
practices.
Link Explorer
https://moz.com/link-explorer
Simple to advanced link-building strategies.
The link-building strategies below will help you build up quality links
pointing to your site, and give Google a nudge to rank your site higher,
ranging from simple tactics for the small business, right up to the
enterprise-level SEO agency looking to roll out links on a large scale.
Business directories.
Business directories are a tried and true form of link building that received
some flack in recent years. This is due to Google penalizing spammers who
built ridiculous amounts of low-quality directory links to their sites.
But there is another type of directory links that every business or website
should have. I'm talking about trusted, industry standard websites like Yelp,
Better Business Bureau, and Yellow Pages. Business directories that screen
and vet applications and list legitimate businesses.
Business directories shouldn’t be overlooked. In fact, directory links should
be the first place to start with any link-building project. If you think about it
fundamentally, how legitimate is a business if it doesn't have a listing on
Yellow Pages, Yelp, and so on? And the great news is there’s a solid
amount of high-quality business directories where you can get powerful
backlinks with a minimum of effort.

-- 79 of 174 --

But just to be safe, these types of links should not make up much more than
10-20% of your total links. They must also be relevant and quality sites, i.e.
not sites with web addresses like seolinksdirectory.com or
freelinksdirectory.com. Sites like these just smell like spam! Before
building a link on a directory, ask yourself, “Does this look like a legitimate
and trustworthy website?” If the answer is no, then move on and focus on
legitimate, quality sites only.
To find relevant directories, use the below search terms in Google,
replacing “keyword” with your targeted keyword or industry, and you can
find relevant directories for your niche:
keyword + submit
keyword + add URL
keyword + add link
keyword + directory
Here is a short list of business directories to get started:
https://www.linkedin.com/
https://www.bingplaces.com/
http://www.yelp.com/
https://www.mapquest.com/
https://www.yellowpages.com/
https://www.manta.com/
https://www.local.com/
https://www.citysearch.com/
https://www.merchantcircle.com/
Stealing competitor’s links.
Stealing competitor's links is an old-school tactic receiving a resurgence in
recent times, due to Google’s increased focus on links from quality sites,
making it more difficult to find easy link opportunities.

-- 80 of 174 --

